FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20080325172526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
On March 24, 2008, Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company (the "Company"), Cooper B-Line, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("B-Line"), Cooper Bussmann, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Bussmann"), Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Crouse"), Cooper Lighting, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Lighting"), Cooper Power Systems, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Power"), and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc., a New York corporation ("Wiring" and, together with B-Line, Bussmann, Crouse, Lighting and Power, the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and, together with the Company, the "Guarantors"), entered into an underwriting agreement, attached as Exhibit 1.1 hereto, with the underwriters named therein, with respect to the issue and sale by Cooper US of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.45% senior unsecured notes due 2015 (the "Notes"), which Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Guarantors (the "Guarantees" and, together with the Notes, the "Securities"). On March 25, 2008, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Prospectus Supplement to its global shelf registration statement on Form S-3 dated June 13, 2007 (Registration No. 333-143688) relating to the offering of the Securities. Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, 5.1, 5.2, 8.1, 23.1 and 23.2 to this Form 8-K relating to the offering of the Securities are hereby incorporated into such Registration Statement by reference.
On March 24, 2008, a committee duly authorized by the Board of Directors of Cooper US authorized the creation of senior debt designated as Cooper US's 5.45% Senior Notes due 2015. The Notes will be issued under an indenture among Cooper US, the Company and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, and a second supplemental indenture among Cooper US, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee, a form of which is attached as Exhibit 4.1 hereto.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 1.1
March 24, 2008
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Cooper US, Inc. a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.450% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes"). Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 18, 2007, between the Company, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company existing under the laws of Bermuda ("Parent"), Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, LLC (formerly Cooper Bussmann, Inc.), Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, Cooper Lighting, LLC (formerly Cooper Lighting, Inc.), Cooper Power Systems, LLC (formerly Cooper Power Systems, Inc.)and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. (each a "Subsidiary Guarantor," collectively the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and, together with Parent, the "Guarantors") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 18, 2007 and as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined below) (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"). The Notes will be guaranteed (the "Guarantees") on an unsecured senior basis by the Guarantors. The Notes, as guaranteed by the Guarantors pursuant to the Guarantees, are referred to as the "Securities."
 
     The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the "DTC Agreement"), between the Company and the Depositary.
     The Company and the Guarantors have prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an "automatic shelf" registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (collectively, with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the "Securities Act") on Form S-3 (File No. 333-143688), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Securities, under the Securities Act, and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "Registration Statement." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "Execution Time") by the parties hereto. The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 5:45 p.m. Eastern Time on March 24, 2008 (the "Initial Sale Time"). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
     The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
     Section 1. .
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Guarantors
 
     The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, hereby represent, warrant and covenant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a "Representation Date"), as follows:
     (a) . Each of the Company, Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of Parent or the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act and (ii)statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to Parent or the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     (b) . The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated March 24, 2008 and (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Annex I hereto. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the
Disclosure Package
 
Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with information furnished to Parent or the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
     (c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
     (d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or the Guarantors or any person acting on their behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, Parent was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors has received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company and the Guarantors have not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Parent is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     (e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), Parent was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that Parent be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Parent is not an Ineligible Issuer
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of the Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
the Company and the Guarantors have promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and have promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at their own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to Parent or the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
     (g) . The Company and the Guarantors have not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
     (h) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors.
Authorization of Underwriting Agreement
     (i) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Authorization of the Indenture
     (j) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
     (k) . The Guarantees have been duly authorized by each of the Guarantors and, when the Notes have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, the Guarantees will be valid and legally binding obligation of each of the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
Authorization of the Guarantees
 
relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     (l) . The Notes, the Guarantees and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes, the Guarantees and the Indenture
     (m) . The statements in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes and Guarantees," "Description of Debt Securities and Guarantees" and "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus
     (n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) there has not been any material change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Change"); (ii) none of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iii) none of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor disturbance or dispute or any action, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority that is material to Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
No Material Adverse Change
     (o) . Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to Parent's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to Parent as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants
     (p) . The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Parent and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The summary financial information included in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the information
Preparation of the Financial Statements
 
shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
     (q) . The Company, the Guarantors and each of their respective subsidiaries have been duly incorporated and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have all power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or on the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their obligations under the Notes and the Guarantees (a "Material Adverse Effect"). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or membership interests of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by Parent, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries
     (r) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of Parent is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to reservations, agreements, employee benefit plans and Parent's stock repurchase program referred to in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options referred to in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
     (s) . None of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents; (ii) in default, and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject; or (iii) in violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, for any such default or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Violation or Default
     (t) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of this Agreement and the Indenture, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the
No Conflicts.
 
Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clause (i) above, for any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (u) . No consent, approval, authorization, filing, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of this Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, filings, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required under applicable state securities laws.
No Consents Required
     (v) Except as described in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or, to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, contemplated by any governmental or regulatory authority or threatened by others.
Legal Proceedings.
     (w) No labor disturbance by or dispute with employees of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries exists or, to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, is contemplated or threatened, that would have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Labor Disputes.
     (x) Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company, Parent and Parent's subsidiaries own or possess adequate rights to use all material patents, patent applications, trademarks, service marks, trade names, trademark registrations, service mark registrations, copyrights, licenses and know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures) necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses as now operated by them; and neither the Company, Parent nor Parent's subsidiaries has received any notice of any claim of infringement of or conflict with any such rights of others that if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or Parent's subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Intellectual Property.
     (y) Except as described in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, the Company, Parent and Parent's subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, decisions and orders relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or
Compliance With Environmental Laws.
 
toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses; and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except in any such case for any such failure to comply with, or failure to receive required permits, licenses or approvals or liability, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (z) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, "Investment Company Act").
Investment Company Act.
     (aa) . None of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company or Parent to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
     (bb) . With respect to the stock options (the "Stock Options") granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of Parent and its subsidiaries (the "Parent Stock Plans"), (i) each such grant was made in all material respects in accordance with the terms of the Parent Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Parent securities are traded, (ii) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the applicable Grant Date and (iii) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the financial statements (including the related notes) of Parent and disclosed in Parent's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws.
Stock Options
     (cc) . There is and has been no failure on the part of Parent or any of Parent's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
     (dd) . Parent maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) designed by, or under the supervision of, Parent's principal executive officer and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management of Parent most recently assessed the effectiveness of Parent's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in . Based upon that assessment, management of Parent
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Internal Control-Integrated Framework
 
believed that, as of December 31, 2007, Parent's internal control over financial reporting was effective based upon those criteria. Management of Parent is not aware of any reason why Parent's internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of the date hereof, and management of Parent is not aware as of the date hereof of any material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting.
     (ee) Parent maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that have been designed to ensure that material information relating to Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to Parent's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within those entities. Management of Parent most recently performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Parent's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the year ended December 31, 2007. Based upon that evaluation, management of Parent concluded that Parent's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date. Management of Parent is not aware of any reason why Parent's disclosure controls and procedures are not effective as of the date hereof.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company, Parent or any subsidiary of Parent and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company, Parent or any such subsidiary, as the case may be, to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
     Section 2. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
     (a) . The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.196% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes
     (b) . Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Mayer Brown LLP, 71 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on March 27, 2008, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date
     (c) . The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes
     (d) . Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes
 
     (e) It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (f) . The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters global certificates representing the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least one full business day prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes
     Section 3. .
Covenants of the Company and the Guarantors
     The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, covenant and agree with each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) . The Company and the Guarantors, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or, on or before the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company and the Guarantors will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as they deem necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, they will promptly file such document. The Company and the Guarantors will use their respective
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
 
reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
     (b) . During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company and the Guarantors will give the Representatives notice of their intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
     (c) . The Company and the Guarantors have furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, as the Representatives may reasonably request, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
     (d) . The Company and the Guarantors will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company and the Guarantors hereby consent to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company and the Guarantors will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
     (e) . The Company and the Guarantors will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company and the Guarantors, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company and the Guarantors will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company and the Guarantors will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
     (f) . The Company and the Guarantors shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Securities for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the applicable state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. The Company and the Guarantors shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company and the Guarantors will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance
     (g) . The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
     (h) . The Company and the Guarantors will cooperate with the Underwriters and use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary
     (i) . During the Prospectus Delivery Period, Parent shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations
     (j) . During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
 
sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company or the Guarantors similar to the Notes or Guarantees or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes or Guarantees (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
     (k) . The Company and the Guarantors will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet"). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. A form of the Final Term Sheet for the Securities is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Final Term Sheet
     (l) . The Company and the Guarantors represent that they have not made, and agree that, unless they obtain the prior written consent of the Representatives, they will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company or the Guarantors with the Commission or retained by the Company or the Guarantors under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company and the Guarantors agree that (i) they have treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) have complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping. The Company and the Guarantors consent to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act,  (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company and the Guarantors contemplated in Section 3(k) or (iv) comparable bond price information; provided, that such consent shall not permit any Underwriter to, and any Underwriter shall obtain the express prior written consent of the Company to, take any action that would result in a free writing prospectus being required to be filed with the Commission under Rule 433 of the Securities Act that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company or the Guarantors thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
     (m) . If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "Renewal Deadline") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company and the Guarantors are no longer eligible to file an
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline
 
automatic shelf registration statement, the Company and the Guarantors will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if they have not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company and the Guarantors will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Securities. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
     (n) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company or any of the Guarantors receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company and the Guarantors will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use their reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company and the Guarantors will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company or any of the Guarantors has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
     (o) . The Company and the Guarantors agree to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
     (p) . The Company and the Guarantors will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company or any of the Guarantors to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Manipulation of Price
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
     Section 4. . The Company and the Guarantors agree to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company and the Guarantors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in
Payment of Expenses
 
connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Securities, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company, the Guarantors or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Securities for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Securities, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company and the Guarantors in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
     Section 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company and the Guarantors set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
     (a) The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company and the Guarantors shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement.
     (b) . On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for Parent, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
     (c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for Parent, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
     (d) . If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Securities has been filed with FINRA for review, FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection
     (e) . For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
     (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
     (ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of the Guarantors by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
     (f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinion, dated as of the Closing Date of (i) Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, U.S. counsel for the Company and the Guarantors, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-1, (ii) Appleby, Bermuda counsel for Parent, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-2 and (iii) Terrance V. Helz, Associate General Counsel of Parent, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-3.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
     (g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Mayer Brown LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Representatives.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
     (h) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by an executive officer of the Company and of each of the Guarantors, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
     (i) the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, has not received any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to such officer's knowledge, threatened by the Commission;
 
     (ii) the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
     (iii) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of the Closing Date; and
     (iv) the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date.
     (i) . On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
     If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company and the Guarantors at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
     Section 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company or any of the Guarantors to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof required to be performed or complied with by the Company or any Guarantor, the Company and the Guarantors agree, jointly and severally, to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
     Section 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement
     Section 8. .
Indemnification
     (a) . The Company and the Guarantors agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers and employees, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as
Indemnification of the Underwriters
 
incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company and the Guarantors), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the indemnified party) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or any Guarantor by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company and the Guarantors may otherwise have.
     (b) . Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Guarantor, each of their respective directors, each of their respective officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any of the Guarantors within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, such Guarantor or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or
Indemnification of the Company, the Guarantors and their Respective Directors and Officers
 
alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or any Guarantor by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, any such Guarantor, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, such Guarantor or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company and the Guarantors hereby acknowledge that the only information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the legal names and respective principal amounts contained in the table under the first paragraph under the caption "Underwriting," the statements set forth in the first paragraph under the heading "UnderwritingCommissions and Discounts," the third sentence in the paragraph under the heading "UnderwritingNew Issue of Notes" and the two paragraphs under the heading "UnderwritingPrice Stabilization and Short Position" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
     (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
 
fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the indemnified party and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
     (d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent the indemnified party is entitled to the benefits of indemnification pursuant to Section 8(a) or (b) hereof, as applicable, by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement , unless the indemnifying party is, in good faith, contesting the amount of such reimbursement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
     Section 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand,
Contribution
 
in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Guarantors, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer or employee of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company or a Guarantor, each officer of the Company or a Guarantor, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or a Guarantor with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company or such Guarantor.
     Section 10. . If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Securities set forth opposite the
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Securities and the aggregate principal amount of such Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
     Section 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company and the Guarantors if at any time after the Execution Time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's or any Guarantor's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD Stock Market Inc.; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of this Agreement
     Section 12. . The Company and the Guarantors acknowledge and agree that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company and the Guarantors are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection
No Fiduciary Duty
 
with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company, the Guarantors or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other affiliated party of the Company or the Guarantors; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or any of the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company or any of the Guarantors on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company or any of the Guarantors with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Guarantors and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company and the Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company or any of the Guarantors may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty with respect to the offering contemplated hereby.
     Section 13. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, the Guarantors, their respective officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, any Guarantor, the officers or employees of the Company or any of the Guarantors, or any person controlling the Company or any of the Guarantors, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Securities and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder. In addition, the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive termination of this Agreement and remain in full force and effect.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
     Section 14. . All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
 
     If to the Representatives:
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, NY 10005 Facsimile: (212) 797-2202 Attention: Debt Capital Markets
and
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 270 Park Avenue New York, New York 10017 Facsimile: (212) 834-6081 Attention: Investment Grade Syndicate Desk
and
UBS Securities LLC 677 Washington Boulevard Stamford, CT 06901 Facsimile: (203) 719-0495 Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate
with a copy to:
Mayer Brown LLP 71 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606 Facsimile: (312) 701-7711 Attention: Edward S. Best
     If to the Company or any of the Guarantors:
Cooper Industries, Ltd. 600 Travis Houston, Texas 77002 Facsimile: (713) 209-8983 Attention: Treasurer
with a copy to:
Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. 1301 McKinney, Suite 5100 Houston, TX 77010 Facsimile: (713) 651-5246 Attention: Laura J. McMahon, Esq.
 
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
     Section 15. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors
     Section 16. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
     Section 17. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Governing Law Provisions
     (a) . Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("Related Proceedings") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York, Borough of Manhattan, or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York, Borough of Manhattan (collectively, the "Specified Courts"), and each party irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction (except for proceedings instituted in regard to the enforcement of a judgment of any such court (a "Related Judgment"), as to which such jurisdiction is non-exclusive) of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Parent irrevocably appoints C T Corporation System, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 (or such successor entity) as its agent to receive service of process or other legal summons for purposes of any suit, action or proceeding based upon this Agreement that may be instituted in any state or federal court in the City and County of New York.
Consent to Jurisdiction
     (b) . With respect to any Related Proceeding, each party irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all immunity (whether on the basis of sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction, service of process, attachment (both before and after judgment) and execution to which it might otherwise be entitled in the Specified Courts, and with respect to any Related Judgment, each party waives any such immunity in the Specified Courts or any other court of competent jurisdiction, and will not raise or claim or cause
Waiver of Immunity
 
to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such Related Proceeding or Related Judgment, including, without limitation, any immunity pursuant to the United States Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, as amended.
     Section 18. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party (which, for purposes of this Section 18, may be the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters) whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company and the Guarantors, their affairs and their business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company and the Guarantors the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
Signature page to underwriting agreement
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. UBS SECURITIES LLC
Acting as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A.
By:     J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Signature page to underwriting agreement
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated March 24, 2008
 
          (i) The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
          (ii) The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. Assuming that (a) the Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Parent and the Trustee and (b) the Parent has the necessary corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, the Base Indenture, the Base Indenture constitutes, under the laws of the State of New York, a valid and binding agreement of the Company and Parent enforceable against the Company and Parent in accordance with its terms.
          (iii) The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Assuming that (a) the Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Parent and the Trustee and (b) the Parent has the necessary corporate or limited liability company right, power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, the Supplemental Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture constitutes, under the laws of the State of New York, a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
          (iv) The Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
          (v) The Notes have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. Assuming (a) the due authentication and delivery of the Notes as provided in the Indenture and (b) payment for the Notes by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute, under the laws of the State of New York, valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
          (vi) The Guarantees of the Notes by the Subsidiary Guarantors have been duly authorized by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and, assuming the Parent has the necessary corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, the Indenture, the Guarantees constitute, under the laws of the State of New York, valid and legally binding obligations of each of the Guarantors enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms.
          (vii) The Notes, the Guarantees and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
          (viii) The statements in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes and Guarantees," and "Description of Debt Securities and Guarantees," in each case insofar as such statements constitute matters of U.S. law or summaries of the Indenture or Securities, other documents or legal proceedings under such laws, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the information described therein.
 
          (ix) The statements in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" insofar as they refer to statements of U.S. law or legal conclusions fairly summarize, in all material respects, the information described therein.
          (x) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required to be obtained or made by the Company or any of the Guarantors under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, or New York state or U.S. federal law for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes, the Guarantees or the Indenture, the issuance and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms of such agreements, except for (i) such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws, as to which we express no opinion, and (ii) such others as have been obtained or taken and are in full force and effect.
          (xi) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the related Guarantees and the application of the related proceeds as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
          (xii) The documents incorporated by reference into the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, when filed with the Commission, appear on their face to have complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
          (xiii) The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act; any required filing of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and any supplements thereto, pursuant to Rule 424(b) has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b); any required filing of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to Rule 433 has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 433; and to our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any notice objecting to its use has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or threatened.
          (xiv) The Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than (i) the financial statements and the notes thereto, financial statement schedules and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which we express no opinion, and (ii) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee) appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and the respective rules thereunder.
     We have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company and the Guarantors, and representatives of the independent public accountants for Parent and representatives of the Underwriters and their counsel at which conferences we made
 
inquiries of such officers, representatives and accountants and discussed the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and related matters. We did not participate in the preparation of, or review prior to filing, the documents filed with the Commission that are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus. Although we are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as set forth in paragraphs (vii), (viii) and (ix) above, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts have come to our attention that lead us to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, at each time of effectiveness contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or at the Closing Date, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (iii) the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that we express no view as to (i) financial statements including the notes thereto, financial statement schedules and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein or (ii) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee).
 
          (i) The Parent has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Bermuda and has the corporate power and authority necessary to own or hold properties other than real property in Bermuda and to conduct the business which the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus describe it to be engaged in.
          (ii) The Parent has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into, execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the "Subject Agreements") to which it is a party and to take all action as may be necessary to complete the transactions contemplated thereby.
          (iii) The execution, delivery and performance by the Parent of the Subject Agreements to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorised by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Parent.
          (iv) The Subject Agreements have been duly executed by the Parent and each constitutes legal, valid and binding obligations of the Parent, enforceable against the Parent in accordance with its terms.
          (v) No consent, licence or authorisation of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of, any governmental authority or court of Bermuda is required to be obtained by the Parent in connection with the guarantee by the Parent of the Notes and the execution, delivery or performance by the Parent of the Subject Agreements or to ensure the legality, validity, admissibility into evidence or enforceability as to the Parent, of the Subject Agreements.
          (vi) The execution, delivery and performance by the Parent of the Subject Agreements and the transactions contemplated thereby do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any requirement of any law or any regulation of Bermuda or (ii) the Constitutional Documents, and the Subject Agreements will not of themselves create a charge or lien over the assets of the Parent.
          (vii) The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the heading "Enforcement of Judgments and Service of Process" and "Certain Tax ConsequencesBermuda Taxation" insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws of Bermuda referred to therein, are accurate and correct in all material respects.
          (viii) It is not necessary or desirable to ensure the enforceability in Bermuda of the Subject Agreements that they be registered in any register kept by, or filed with, any governmental authority or regulatory body in Bermuda. Although the Subject Agreements will not create a charge over the assets of the Parent, it should be noted that charges over the assets of Bermuda companies (other than real property in Bermuda or a
 
ship or aircraft registered in Bermuda) wherever situated, and charges on assets situated in Bermuda (other than real property in Bermuda or a ship or aircraft registered in Bermuda) which are granted by or to companies incorporated outside Bermuda, are capable of being registered in Bermuda in the office of the Registrar of Companies pursuant to the provisions of Part V of the Companies Act 1981 (the "Act"). Registration under the Act is the only method of registration of charges over the assets of Bermuda companies in Bermuda except charges over real property in Bermuda or ships or aircraft registered in Bermuda. Registration under the Act is not compulsory and does not affect the validity or enforceability of a charge and there is no time limit within which registration of a charge must be effected. However, in the event that questions of priority fall to be determined by reference to Bermuda law, any charge registered pursuant to the Act will take priority over any other charge which is registered subsequently in regard to the same assets, and over all other charges created over such assets after 1 July, 1983, which are not registered.
          (ix) The Parent has received an assurance from the Ministry of Finance granting an exemption, until 28 March 2016, from the imposition of tax under any applicable Bermuda law computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, provided that such exemption shall not prevent the application of any such tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda and shall not prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to land in Bermuda leased to the Parent. There are, subject as otherwise provided in this opinion, no Bermuda taxes, stamp or documentary taxes, duties or similar charges now due, or which could in the future become due, in connection with the execution, delivery, performance or enforcement of the Subject Agreements or the transactions contemplated thereby, or in connection with the admissibility in evidence thereof and the Parent is not required by any Bermuda law or regulation to make any deductions or withholdings in Bermuda from any payment it may make thereunder.
          (x) The choice of the laws of the State of New York as the proper law to govern the Subject Agreements is a valid choice of law under Bermuda law and such choice of law would be recognised, upheld and applied by the courts of Bermuda as the proper law of the Subject Agreements in proceedings brought before them in relation to the Subject Agreements, provided that (i) the point is specifically pleaded; (ii) such choice of law is valid and binding under the laws of the State of New York; and (iii) recognition would not be contrary to public policy as that term is understood under Bermuda law.
          (xi) The submission by the Parent to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York pursuant to the Subject Agreements is not contrary to Bermuda law and would be recognised by the courts of Bermuda as a legal, valid and binding submission to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, if such submission is accepted by such courts and is legal, valid and binding under the laws of the State of New York.
 
          (xii) A final and conclusive judgment of a foreign court against the Parent based upon the Subject Agreements (other than a court of jurisdiction to which The Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1958 applies, and it does not apply to the courts of the State of New York) under which a sum of money is payable (not being a sum payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature, in respect of a fine or other penalty, or in respect of multiple damages as defined in The Protection of Trading Interests Act 1981) may be the subject of enforcement proceedings in the Supreme Court of Bermuda under the common law doctrine of obligation by action on the debt evidenced by the foreign court's judgment. A final opinion as to the availability of this remedy should be sought when the facts surrounding the foreign court's judgment are known, but, on general principles, we would expect such proceedings to be successful provided that:
     (A) the court which gave the judgment was competent to hear the action in accordance with private international law principles as applied in Bermuda; and
     (B) the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Bermuda, has not been obtained by fraud or in proceedings contrary to natural justice and is not based on an error in Bermuda law.
          Enforcement of such a judgment against assets in Bermuda may involve the conversion of the judgment debt into Bermuda dollars, but the Bermuda Monetary Authority has indicated that its present policy is to give the consents necessary to enable recovery in the currency of the obligation.
          (xiii) The appointment by the Parent of Cooper US, Inc. as agent for the receipt of any service of process in respect of any court in the State of New York in connection with any matter arising out of or in connection with the Indenture is a valid and effective appointment, if such appointment is valid and binding under the laws of the State of New York and if no other procedural requirements are necessary in order to validate such appointment.
          (xiv) Based solely upon the Parent Search and the Litigation Search:
     (A) no litigation, administrative or other proceeding of or before any governmental authority of Bermuda is pending against the Parent; and
     (B) no notice to the Registrar of Companies of the passing of a resolution of members or creditors to wind up or the appointment of a liquidator or receiver has been given. No petition to wind up the Parent or application to reorganise its affairs pursuant to a scheme of arrangement or application for the appointment of a receiver has been filed with the Supreme Court.
 
          (i) The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors have been duly organized or formed, as applicable, and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization or formation, as applicable. The Company, Parent and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have the corporate or limited liability company power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (ii) Parent has an authorized capitalization of 500 million Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, 250 million Class B Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, and 10,000,000 Preferred Shares, par value $0.01 per share; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor have been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid and non-assessable.
          (iii) The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors have the corporate or limited liability company right, power and authority to execute and deliver the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes, the Guarantees and the Indenture and to perform their respective obligations thereunder.
          (iv) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of the Underwriting Agreement, the Securities and the Indenture, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Securities and the Indenture and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (i) to the best of my knowledge, conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority applicable to the Company or Parent, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for
 
any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (v) To the best of my knowledge, except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and, to the best of my knowledge, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or contemplated by any governmental or regulatory authority or threatened by others.
          (vi) The descriptions in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus of statutes, legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and contracts and other documents fairly summarize, in all material respects, such statutes, proceedings, contracts and other documents.
     I have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company and the Guarantors, and representatives of the independent public accountants for Parent and representatives of the Underwriters and their counsel at which conferences they made inquiries of such officers, representatives and accountants and discussed the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and related matters and, although I am not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, including statistical information, except as set forth in paragraph (vi) above, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts have come to my attention that lead me to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, at each time of effectiveness, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or at the Closing Date contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (iii) the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that I express no view as to (i) financial statements including the notes thereto, financial statement schedules and other financial information contained or incorporated therein or (ii) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee).
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer and the guarantors have filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. at (800) 503-4611, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at (collect) at (212) 834-4533 or UBS Securities LLC at 877-827-6444, ext. 561-3884.
www.sec.gov

 
Exhibit  4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     dated as of March 27, 2008 (this ""), between (i) , a Delaware corporation (the "" or the ""), (ii) , an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of Bermuda (""), (iii) , a Delaware corporation (""), , a Delaware limited liability company ("") (formerly known as Cooper Bussmann, Inc.), , a Delaware limited liability company (""), , a Delaware limited liability company ("") (formerly known as Cooper Lighting, Inc.), , a Delaware limited liability company ("") (formerly known as Cooper Power Systems, Inc.), and , a New York corporation (""), and (iv) , a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "").
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Second Supplemental Indenture
Cooper US, Inc.
Issuer
Company
Cooper Industries, Ltd.
Cooper Parent
Cooper B-Line, Inc.
B-Line
Cooper Bussmann, LLC
Bussmann
Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC
Crouse
Cooper Lighting, LLC
Lighting
Cooper Power Systems, LLC
Power Systems
Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
Wiring
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
Trustee
     the Issuer and Cooper Parent have heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of June 18, 2007 (as amended (in accordance with its applicable provisions) by supplements and amendments of general application, the ""), with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee;
WHEREAS,
Original Indenture
     the Issuer, the Guarantors and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, previously entered into that certain First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 18, 2007 (the "");
WHEREAS,
First Supplemental Indenture
     the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "";
WHEREAS,
Indenture
     under the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Debt Securities may at any time be established by a supplemental Indenture executed by the Issuer, the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee;
WHEREAS,
     the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Debt Securities;
WHEREAS,
     additional Debt Securities of other series hereafter established, except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified; and
WHEREAS,
     all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
WHEREAS,
     in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
     .
Section 1.01. Establishment of New Series
     (a) There is hereby established a new series of Debt Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 5.45% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "").
Notes
     (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered $300,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
     (c) The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities in substantially the form set out in hereto. The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Exhibit A
     (d) Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph number 1 of the form of Note in hereto. As provided for in , the Notes shall be jointly and severally guaranteed by the Guarantors.
Exhibit A
Article VII
     (e) If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, including provisions contained in the form of Note in hereto, shall govern.
Exhibit A
     . All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned in the Original Indenture. The words "Article" and "Section", unless otherwise modified, refer to an Article and Section, respectively, of this Second Supplemental Indenture. The following are additional definitions used in this Second Supplemental Indenture:
Section 2.01. Definitions
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in .
Additional Notes
Section 3.02
     "" means a decrease in the ratings of the Notes below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following the public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
provided
 
(whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
B-Line
     "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions located in the state where the Trustee is located are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.
Business Day
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Bussmann
     "" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person or group of Persons for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries or a Person controlled by Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of Cooper Parent Voting Stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of Cooper Parent's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
Change of Control
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in .
Change of Control Offer
Section 5.01
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in .
Change of Control Payment
Section 5.01
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in .
Change of Control Payment Date
Section 5.01
     "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Company
     "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of Cooper Parent's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Crouse
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
Exchange Act
     "" means, collectively, Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and subject to , their respective successors and assigns.
Guarantors
Article VII
 
     "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
     "" means the date of the first issuance of the Notes under the Indenture.
Issue Date
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Issuer
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Lighting
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in .
Notes
Section 1.01(a)
     "", as used in the definition of "Change of Control", has the meaning assigned in the Original Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Power Systems
     "" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer (as set forth in Certified Resolutions) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
S&P
     "" means, collectively, B-Line, Bussmann, Crouse, Lighting, Power Systems and Wiring.
Subsidiary Guarantors
     "" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
     "" shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
Wiring
     . The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Section 3.01. Form
Exhibit A
     . The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes
Section 3.02. Issuance of Additional Notes
Additional Notes
 
issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and date of first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000. The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued, shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
     .
Section 3.03. Transfer of Securities
     (a) When Notes are presented to the Notes registrar with the request to register the transfer of such Notes or exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, such registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange in accordance with Article Two of the Original Indenture.
     (b) Each security certificate evidencing the Global Debt Securities shall bear a legend substantially in the form set forth in Section 2.11 of the Original Indenture.
     .
Section 4.01. Optional Redemption
     (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
     (b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date for such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Exhibit A
     (c) Any redemption pursuant to this shall otherwise be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.01 through 4.03 of the Original Indenture. The actual redemption price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Quotation Agent (as defined in such paragraph number 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each redemption date for such Notes.
Section 4.01
Exhibit A
     . The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be obligated to offer to repurchase Notes as provided in .
Section 4.02. Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund
Article V
     . Article Five of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section at the end of said Article Five:
Section 5.01. Covenants
     ". .
Section 5.10
Offer to Repurchase upon Change of Control and Repurchase Event
 
     (a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as provided for in the Indenture, the Company shall make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
     Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
     (i) the description of the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event, that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this , and that all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn will be accepted for payment;
Section 5.10
     (ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "");
Change of Control Payment Date
     (iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
     (iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
     (v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes properly endorsed, with the form entitled "" on the reverse of the Notes properly completed, together with other customary documents as the Company may reasonably request, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
     (vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the paying agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
     (vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be in an integral multiple of $1,000.
If any of the Notes subject to a Change of Control Offer are in the form of a Global Note, then the Company shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the applicable procedures of the Depositary applicable to repurchases. In addition, the Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations under the Exchange Act to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Notes as a
 
result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this or the Notes, or any related definitions and other provisions of the Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this or the Notes, or any other provision of the Indenture, by virtue of such conflict.
Section 5.10
Section 5.10
     (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the paying agent in immediately available funds an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes accepted for purchase, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered by the Holder; that each such new Note will be in an integral multiple of $1,000. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
     (c) The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of the Indenture are applicable, except as set forth in of this Indenture.
Article Thirteen
     (d) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture that are applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. A Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, and conditional upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Repurchase Event, if a definitive agreement for the Change of Control is in place at the time of making of the Change of Control Offer."
     . Section 5.07 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the phrase "or " immediately following the phrase "set forth in or , and immediately preceding the word "hereof" which otherwise followed such phrase.
Section 5.02. Supplement to Covenants
5.10
Section 5.05
5.06
     . Section 8.06 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase "The Company and the Guarantors" in lieu of the phrase "The Company and Cooper Parent" as therein originally provided in the opening portion of the second sentence of said Section 8.06.
Section 6.01. Compensation and Expenses of Trustee
 
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Twelve of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article
     ". The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.01 Company May Consolidate, Etc. Only on Certain Terms
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; , the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however
Section 12.01
     . Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ) shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.02. Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 12.01
Section 12.01
     . Cooper Parent shall not consolidate or amalgamate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.03. Cooper Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
 
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, Cooper Parent's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of Cooper Parent to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     (3) Cooper Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; , the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however
Section 12.03
     . Upon any consolidation, amalgamation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Cooper Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Cooper Parent herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, Cooper Parent (or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ), shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.04. Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 12.03
Section 12.03
     
Section 12.05. Consolidation, Merger, Etc. of Subsidiary Guarantors.
     (A) If any Subsidiary Guarantor consolidates with, merges into, or conveys or transfers its assets substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary:
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which such Subsidiary Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, such Person's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor to be performed or observed; and
     (2) such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
     (b) If any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary or merges into, consolidates with, or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety, to a Person other than Cooper Parent or
 
another Subsidiary, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee in accordance with ."
Section 16.02(b)
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Sixteen of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article
     ". Except as otherwise provided herein, the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, including all obligations hereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Notes and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the Guarantors hereby agree to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantors agree that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of ), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company or the Guarantors or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Notes or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantors hereby waive the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Notes or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Notes except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and in such Guarantee or the operation, as applicable, of . The Guarantors agree that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Notes, to collect any principal of, or, interest or premium, if any, on, the Notes, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Notes, the Guarantors agree to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Section 16.01. Guarantee
Article Thirteen
Article Thirteen
     The Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Notes upon which its Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantors on account of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; , that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all Notes issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
provided, however
 
     This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Notes, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Notes, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Notes shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     .
Section 16.02 Release of Guarantee
     (a) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, each of the Guarantors shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Notes, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of each of the Guarantors from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantors under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the Guarantors shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
     (b) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the time that any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary (other than by such Guarantor's consolidation with, or merger into, Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary) or such Subsidiary Guarantor conveys or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, then such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under this Guarantee."
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
Section 16.02(b)
 
     . Section 13.02 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase " and " in lieu of the phrase " and " as therein originally provided.
Section 9.01. Defeasance Upon Deposit of Money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations
Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.10
12.01
Sections 5.05, 5.06
12.01
     . Section 15.11 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of paragraph (c) thereto as follows:
Section 10.01. Judgment Currency; Service of Process
     "(c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably designates and appoints the Company, 600 Travis, Houston, Texas 77002, authorized agent with respect to any suit, action or proceeding based on or arising out of or in relation to this Indenture or any Notes or its Guarantee, it being understood that the designation and appointment of the Company as such authorized agent shall become effective immediately without any further action on the part of any Subsidiary Guarantor. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that service of process upon the Company and written notice of said service to such Subsidiary Guarantor mailed by prepaid registered first class mail or delivered to the Company at its principal office, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process on each Subsidiary Guarantor, as applicable, in any such suit, action or proceeding."
     . This Second Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Section 11.01. Integral Part
     . The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Section 11.02. Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
     . This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each party hereto on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 11.03. Counterparts
     . THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 11.04. Governing Law
     . The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 11.05. Trustee Makes No Representation
 
     . The Trustee hereby notifies each of the Company and the Guarantors that pursuant to the requirement of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Company and the Guarantors, which information includes the name and address of each of the Company and the Guarantors and other information that will allow the Trustee to identify each of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Section 11.06. USA Patriot Act Notice
Patriot Act
 
     , the parties hereby have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and delivered by their duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
     Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to ___, or registered assigns, the principal sum of ___Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto] on April 1, 2015 (the "").
1
Stated Maturity
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2008 Record Dates: March 15 and September 15
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
     This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated ____________
 
 
     THIS DEBT SECURITY IS A GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC") TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OR TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
     1.     .     Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "" or the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 5.45% per annum from ___, 2008 until maturity. The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be October 1, 2008. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate, and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful; and each type of interest referred to in this sentence shall hereinafter be referred to as "". Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Company
Issuer
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided
further
Defaulted Interest
     2.     .     (a) The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the March 15 and September 15 immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in of
Method of Payment
Paragraph 2(b)
 
this Note with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a paying agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, 27 Floor, New York, New York 10005), or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (1) each Global Debt Security and (2) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent on or prior to the applicable record date. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
th
provided
     (b)     Any Defaulted Interest on any Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder thereof on the relevant record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Issuer, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (i) or (ii) below.
     (i)     The Issuer may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons whose names are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: The Issuer shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Note and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Issuer, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder thereof at its address as it appears in the Note register, not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on such special record date.
     (ii)     The Issuer may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Notes in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Registered Securities of such series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Issuer to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
     3.     .     Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as paying agent and Registrar. The Issuer may change any paying agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4.     .     The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of June 18, 2007 (as amended (in accordance with its applicable provisions) by supplements and amendments of general application thereto, the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 18, 2007 (the "") and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 27, 2008 (the "", and together with the Original Indenture as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, the ""), between the Issuer, Cooper Parent, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this Note shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million. The Issuer may issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture. Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Note for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Second Supplemental Indenture). Initially, the Notes are guaranteed by Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors named in the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
Original Indenture
First Supplemental Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     5.     .     (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
     (b)     To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (excluding interest accrued to the redemption date of such Notes) discounted to such redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 40.0 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date of such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
     For purposes of determining the redemption price, the following definitions shall apply:
     "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate notes of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
     "" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
     "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
Quotation Agent
     "" means (i) Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
     "" means, for each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date of the Notes, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
     "" means, with respect to any redemption date of the Notes, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
     6.     .     The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be required to make an offer to repurchase Notes as provided in of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund; Repurchases
Section 5.01
     7.     .     Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the redemption price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
     8.     .     The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
     9.     .     The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
     10.     .     Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 11.01 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
the assumption of the Issuer's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation of the Issuer or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets, to add or release Guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes, to comply with the requirements of the SEC to permit the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or separate Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any Guarantor or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Debt Securities.
     11.     .     Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise; (iii) default for 30 days in the making of any payment when due for a sinking, purchase or similar fund provided for in respect to the Notes; (iv) failure by the Company or any Guarantor for 90 days after notice to comply with any of its other covenants or agreements in the Indenture relating to the Notes; (v) except as permitted by the Indenture, the Guarantee of Cooper Parent ceasing to be in full force and effect or Cooper Parent denies or disaffirms its obligations under the Indenture or its Guarantee; and (vi) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer or Cooper Parent. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all Outstanding Notes shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. If and so long as the Trustee in good faith so determines that withholding notice is in the interests of the Holders, the Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest). The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding by written notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, the principal of, or premium, if any, on, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture.
Defaults and Remedies
     12.     .     The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuer or its affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Issuer
     13.     .     The directors, officers, incorporators, stockholders and other equity-interest owners, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Guarantor or any successor Person, either directly or indirectly through the Company or a Guarantor or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statue or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, shall have no liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantors under the Notes, the Indenture or the Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note expressly waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
     14.     .     This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
     15.     .     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
     16.     .     Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
     The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Cooper US, Inc. 600 Travis Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: ________________________
 
     For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture dated as of June 18, 2007 (as amended or supplemented (in general application) and in effect, including by means of the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of June 18, 2007 and the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of March 27, 2008, the "") among Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), the Guarantors party thereto and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the ""), that (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other payment obligations of the Issuer to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture are set forth in the Indenture, and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
Indenture
Issuer
Trustee
     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                                         
                    
                                         
                    
                          
 
     The original principal amount of this Global Note is $. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
                    
 

 
Exhibit 5.1
Cooper Industries, Ltd. Cooper B-Line, Inc Cooper Bussmann, LLC Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Lighting, LLC Cooper Power Systems, LLC Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. Cooper US, Inc.
c/o Cooper Industries, Ltd. 600 Travis Houston, Texas 77002
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special United States counsel to Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Parent") and Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), in connection with the proposed offering by Cooper US of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 5.45% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes") to be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Cooper Parent, Cooper B-Line, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Cooper Bussmann, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Lighting, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Power Systems, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc., a New York corporation (collectively, the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and with Cooper Parent, the "Guarantors") pursuant to guarantees (the "Guarantees"). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated June 18, 2007, as amended by a Second Supplemental Indenture anticipated to be dated March 27, 2008 (as so amended and supplemented, the "Indenture") among Cooper Parent, Cooper US, the subsidiary guarantors named therein and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, which establishes the forms and terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture. We refer to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-143688) (the "Registration Statement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") by Cooper US and the Guarantors on June 13, 2007, including the base prospectus contained therein, and the prospectus supplement (the "Prospectus Supplement") filed with the Commission on March 25, 2008, relating to the offering of the Notes.
We have examined such corporate records, documents and questions of law as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion. In such examinations, we have
 
March 25, 2008 Page 2
assumed the genuineness of signatures and the conformity to the originals of the documents supplied to us as copies. As to various questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon statements and certificates of officers and representatives. Without limiting the foregoing, we have examined the Underwriting Agreement, dated March 24, 2008, among Cooper Parent, Cooper US, the subsidiary guarantors named therein, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC and the other underwriters(the "Underwriters") named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement"). In connection with rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed that any supplemental indenture relating to the Securities will be duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto and each person signing the Indenture will have the legal capacity and authority to do so.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the limitations, qualifications, assumptions and exceptions stated herein, we are of the opinion that:
(i) The Notes have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, will, under the laws of the State of New York, constitute legal and binding obligations of Cooper US; and
(ii) Assuming Cooper US has the necessary corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, the Indenture, the Guarantees will, under the laws of the State of New York, constitute legal and binding obligations of each of the Guarantors.
Each of the opinions above is subject to any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium and similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law).
The foregoing opinions are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (including the applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and the reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws) and the federal laws of the United States of America.
We hereby consent to the references to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement and to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. By giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 or the rules and regulations thereunder.

 
Exhibit 5.2
dwaithe@applebyglobal.com 441 298 3578 441 298 3429
e-mail:
direct dial: Tel
Fax
client ref:
JC/DW 61158.50
appleby ref:
Cooper US Inc, and the Guarantors named in the Third Schedule to this Opinion c/o Cooper Industries, Ltd. 600 Travis Houston, Texas 77002
25 March 2008
Dear Sirs
Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company")
We have acted as legal counsel in Bermuda to the Company in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-143688) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company as registrant, Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, LLC, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, Cooper Lighting, LLC, Cooper Power Systems, LLC, Cooper US, Inc. and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. as co-registrants (together the "Co-Registrants") relating to the shelf registration under The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of debt securities (the "Debt Securities") of Cooper US, Inc. (the "Issuer") guaranteed by the Company and the Co-Registrants other than the Issuer. The Company has requested that we provide this opinion in connection with the filing by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington D.C. 20549 (the "Commission") of a prospectus supplement dated March 24, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to a prospectus dated June 13, 2007 (the "Prospectus"), which is part of the Registration Statement, pursuant to which the Issuer proposes to issue and sell to the underwriters in the Second Schedule to this opinion (the "Underwriters") the Issuer's 5.450% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes").
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated June 18, 2007 among the Company, the Issuer and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Bank") as Trustee (the "Original Indenture") as supplemented by a Second Supplemental Indenture to be made among the Company, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Bank as
 
Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Original Indenture, the "Subject Agreements"). The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company (the guarantee of the Notes being referred to as the "Guarantees").
For the purposes of this opinion we have examined and relied upon the documents listed, and in some cases defined, in the First Schedule to this opinion (the "") together with such other documentation as we have considered requisite to this opinion. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms have the meanings assigned to them in the Subject Agreements.
Documents
Assumptions
In stating our opinion we have assumed:
 
 
 
Opinion
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and subject to the reservations set out below and to any matters not disclosed to us, we are of the opinion that:
 
Reservations
We have the following reservations:
 
 
 
Furthermore, in the absence of a statutorily defined system for the registration of charges created by companies incorporated outside Bermuda ("overseas companies") over their assets located in Bermuda, it is not possible to determine definitively from searches of the Register of Charges maintained by the Registrar of Companies in respect of such overseas companies what charges have been registered over any of their assets located in Bermuda or whether any one charge has priority over any other charge over such assets.
Disclosure
This opinion is addressed to you in connection with the filing by the Company of the Prospectus Supplement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We consent to the inclusion of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, this opinion is neither to be transmitted to any other person, nor relied upon by any other person or for any other purpose nor quoted or referred to in any public document nor filed with any governmental agency or
 
person, without our prior written consent, except as may be required by law or regulatory authority.
This opinion speaks as of its date and is strictly limited to the matters stated herein and we assume no obligation to review or update this opinion if applicable laws or the existing facts or circumstances should change. We hereby consent to the use of our name in the Prospectus Supplement in the context in which it appears.
This opinion is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with Bermuda law. It is given on the basis that it will not give rise to any legal proceedings with respect thereto in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda.
Yours faithfully
/S/ APPLEBY
Appleby
 
(the Board Resolutions and the Committee Resolutions are collectively referred to as the "Resolutions").
 
 
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. JP Morgan Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC ANZ Securities, Inc. Banc of America Securities LLC BNY Capital Markets, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Greenwich Capital Markets Inc. PNC Capital Markets LLC Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC The Williams Capital Group, L.P.
 
Cooper Industries, Ltd. Cooper B-Line, Inc Cooper Bussmann, LLC Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Lighting, LLC Cooper Power Systems, LLC Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.

 
Exhibit 8.1
Cooper Industries, Ltd. Cooper B-Line, Inc Cooper Bussmann, LLC Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Lighting, LLC Cooper Power Systems, LLC Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. Cooper US, Inc.
c/o Cooper Industries, Ltd. 600 Travis Houston, Texas 77002
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as special United States counsel to Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Parent") and Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), in connection with the proposed offering by Cooper US of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 5.45% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes") to be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Cooper Parent, as well as Cooper B-Line, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Cooper Bussmann, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Lighting, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Cooper Power Systems, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc., a New York corporation (collectively, the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and with Cooper Parent, the "Guarantors") pursuant to guarantees. We refer to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-143688) (the "Registration Statement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") by Cooper US and the Guarantors on June 13, 2007, including the base prospectus contained therein, and the prospectus supplement (the "Prospectus Supplement") filed with the Commission on March 25, 2008, relating to the offering of the Notes.
     We hereby confirm to you that the discussion set forth in the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" (the "Discussion"), is our opinion insofar as the Discussion contains statements of U.S. federal income tax law or legal
 
March 25, 2008 Page 2
conclusions, based upon current laws and subject to the limitations, qualifications and assumptions stated in the Discussion.
     No opinion is expressed as to any matter not specifically addressed above, including any tax consequences to holders of the Notes under state, local or non-United States laws and the reasonableness of the assumptions relied upon by us in rendering the opinion set forth herein.  
     We hereby consent to the references to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement and to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. By giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 or the rules and regulations thereunder.


