FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20090909093942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Supplemental Indentures
     On September 8, 2009, Cooper Industries, LLCCooper Industries, Ltd., Cooper Industries plc and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, entered into the Fifth Supplemental Indenture (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of January 15, 1990 (as amended and supplemented prior to the date of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the "1990 Indenture"), by and among Cooper Industries, LLC, Cooper Industries, Ltd. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, pursuant to which Cooper Industries plc guaranteed the obligations of Cooper Industries, LLC under the 1990 Indenture. The Fifth Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.2.
,
     On September 8, 2009, Cooper US, Inc.Cooper Industries, Ltd., the Guarantors (as defined therein) (other than Cooper Industries, Ltd.), Cooper Industries plc and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, entered into the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of November 8, 2005 (the "2005 Indenture"), by and among Cooper US, Inc.Cooper Industries, Ltd., the Guarantors (as defined therein) (other than Cooper Industries, Ltd.) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, pursuant to which Cooper Industries plc guaranteed the obligations of Cooper US, Inc. under the 2005 Indenture. The First Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.3 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the First Supplemental Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.3.
,
,
     On September 8, 2009, Cooper US, Inc.Cooper Industries, Ltd., the Guarantors (as defined therein) (other than Cooper Industries, Ltd.), Cooper Industries plc and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, entered into the Third Supplemental Indenture (the "Third Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of June 18, 2007 (as amended and supplemented prior to the date of the Third Supplemental Indenture, the "2007 Indenture"), by and among Cooper US, Inc.Cooper Industries, Ltd., the Guarantors (as defined therein) (other than Cooper Industries, Ltd.) and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, pursuant to which Cooper Industries plc guaranteed the obligations of Cooper US, Inc. under the 2007 Indenture. The Third Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.4 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Third Supplemental Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.4.
,
,
Indemnification Agreements
     The information under the heading "Indemnification Agreements" in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Assumption of Employee Share Plans and Awards
     On September 8, 2009, Cooper Industries plc entered into Deed Polls of Assumption (collectively, the "Deed Polls") pursuant to which Cooper Industries plc assumed, effective as of the Transaction Time, certain equity incentive plans and other similar employee award plans of
Table of Contents
the Cooper Industries group (collectively, the "Plans"), including all awards issued thereunder. The Deed Polls provide that Cooper Industries plc will undertake and discharge all of the rights and obligations previously discharged by Cooper Industries, Ltd. under the Plans and exercise all of the powers previously exercised by Cooper Industries, Ltd. pursuant to the terms of the Plans. A copy of each Deed Poll is filed herewith as Exhibits 10.8 through 10.11 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Deed Polls is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.8 through 10.11.
Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement
     In connection with the Transaction (as defined in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K), Cooper Industries plc and Cooper Industries, Ltd. entered into a Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2009, executed as a Deed Poll, with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"). The Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. approved the Transaction at a special meeting of shareholders held on August 31, 2009. The Rights Agreement further amends and restates the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of August 3, 2007, between Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (the "Old Agreement"). Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, the preferred share purchase rights associated with the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Class A common shares (the "Old Rights") were replaced with newly issued preferred share purchase rights associated with the Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares (the "Rights"). The content of the Rights Agreement is substantially similar to that of the Old Agreement.
     . One Right was issued in respect of each Ordinary Share outstanding as of immediately after the Transaction Time (as defined in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K), and one Right (subject to adjustment as provided for in the Rights Agreement) will be issued in respect of each Ordinary Share issued after that time but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date (each as defined below). Each Right initially represents the right to purchase, at an exercise price of $600, one one-hundredth of a Series A Participating Preferred Share, par value US$.01 per share (each, a "Preferred Share"), of Cooper Industries plc, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Rights Agreement. Cooper Industries plc is not required to issue fractions of Preferred Shares.
Summary of the Rights
     The Rights are initially attached to all outstanding ordinary share certificates (which includes, for purposes of the Rights Agreement, book-entry interests in respect of any uncertificated ordinary shares) and no separate Rights Certificates will be distributed until a Distribution Date occurs. Subject to certain exceptions specified in the Rights Agreement, the Rights will separate from the ordinary shares and a "Distribution Date" will occur upon the earlier of: (i) the close of business of the 10th business day after the first date of public announcement by Cooper Industries plc or an Acquiring Person (as defined below) that a person has become an Acquiring Person (such date, the "Stock Acquisition Date") and (ii) the close of business of the 10th business day (or such later date as the board shall determine) after the date that a tender, exchange or takeover offer by any person (other than Cooper Industries plc, any subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, any employee benefit plan of Cooper Industries plc or of any subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by Cooper Industries plc for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) is first published, sent or given, if upon completion
Table of Contents
of the tender, exchange or takeover offer such person would be the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the ordinary shares then outstanding.
     An "Acquiring Person" is defined in the Rights Agreement to mean any person who or which, together with all affiliates and associates, has beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the ordinary shares then outstanding. The term does not include Cooper Industries plc, any subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, any employee benefit plan of Cooper Industries plc or of any subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc or any person established by Cooper Industries plc for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan. The term also excludes any person who becomes an Acquiring Person solely as a result of a reduction in the number of ordinary shares outstanding due to the repurchase of ordinary shares by Cooper Industries plc, unless and until such person purchases (or otherwise gains beneficial ownership of) additional ordinary shares that constitute 1% or more of ordinary shares then outstanding.
     Until the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date, the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the underlying ordinary shares and the registered holders of ordinary shares will also be the registered holders of the associated Rights.
     As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, separate certificates evidencing the Rights (the "Rights Certificates") will be sent by the Rights Agent, via first-class, insured, postage-prepaid mail, to each record holder of ordinary shares as of the of the close of business on the Distribution Date. Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Rights Certificates, whenever distributed, will entitle the holders to purchase the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as is set forth therein at the price set forth therein (but the amount and type of securities purchasable upon the exercise of each Rights and the Purchase Price will be subject to adjustment as provided for in the Rights Agreement). Any Rights Certificates that represent Rights beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or its associates and affiliates, or by certain transferees of Acquiring Persons or their associates and affiliates, will also contain a legend indicating that the Rights represented by the Rights Certificate were associated with an Acquiring Person and may become null and void pursuant to certain circumstances.
     Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a shareholder of Cooper Industries plc, including the right to vote, to receive dividends or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting shareholders.
     . The Purchase Price payable, and the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision, consolidation or reclassification of, the Preferred Shares, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Shares are granted certain rights or warrants to subscribe for Preferred Shares or convertible securities at less than the current market price of the Preferred Shares or (iii) upon the distribution to holders of the Preferred Shares of evidences of indebtedness or assets (excluding regular quarterly cash dividends) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those referred to above). No adjustment to the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price. In lieu of adjusting the Purchase Price, Cooper Industries plc may instead adjust the number of Rights outstanding.
Adjustment of Purchase Price and Number of Rights
Table of Contents
     In the event that, prior to the Distribution Date, there is any (i) dividend on the ordinary shares payable in ordinary shares, (ii) subdivision of the ordinary shares or (iii) consolidation of the ordinary shares into a smaller number of shares, the number of Rights associated with each ordinary share will be proportionately adjusted so that the number of Rights outstanding after any such event will equal the number of Rights outstanding prior to such event.
     . Each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, if issued: will not be redeemable; will entitle its holder to quarterly dividend payments of $.10, or an amount equal to the dividend paid on one ordinary share, whichever is greater; will entitle its holder upon liquidation either to receive $1.00 or an amount equal to the payment made on one ordinary share, whichever is greater; and will have the same voting power as one ordinary share. The value of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share should approximate the value of one ordinary share.
Preferred Share Provisions
     . The Rights will become exercisable at any time after the Distribution Date. A holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise his or her Rights, in whole or in part, by payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as to which such holder is exercising his or her Rights. Such exercise must take place at or prior to the earlier of (i) the close of business on August 1, 2017 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed by Cooper Industries plc pursuant to the terms of the Rights Agreement or (iii) the time at which the rights are exchanged for ordinary shares or Preferred Shares pursuant to the terms of the Rights Agreement (the earlier of (i), (ii) and (iii) above is referred to as the "Expiration Date"). Notwithstanding the above, any Rights owned by an Acquiring Person or its associates and affiliates, or by certain transferees of Acquiring Persons or their associates and affiliates, will become null and void from and after the time that any person becomes an Acquiring Person (subject to certain exceptions).
Exercise of Rights and "Flip-In" Provision
     In lieu of being exercisable to purchase a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share, upon such time as any person becomes an Acquiring Person (subject to certain exceptions, including an acquisition pursuant to a Qualifying Offer (as defined below)), each Right will entitle the holder to receive, upon payment of the Purchase Price, ordinary shares (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of Cooper Industries plc) having a value equal to two times the Purchase Price. For example, at an exercise price of $600 per Right, each Right that has not become null and void (by virtue of its ownership by an Acquiring Person or certain parties related to an Acquiring Person) would entitle its holder to purchase $1,200 worth of ordinary shares for $600. Assuming each ordinary share had a market value of $60 at such time, the holder of each valid Right would be entitled to purchase 200 ordinary shares (instead of 100 ordinary shares) for $600.
     A "Qualifying Offer" is defined in the Rights Agreement to mean an acquisition of ordinary shares pursuant to a tender, exchange or takeover offer for all outstanding ordinary shares at a price and on terms determined by at least two-thirds of the Continuing Directors to be in the best interests of Cooper Industries plc and its shareholders. A "Continuing Director" is defined in the Rights Agreement to mean (i) any member of the board, while such person is a member of the board, who is not an Acquiring Person or its affiliate or associate, or a representative of an Acquiring Person or its affiliates or associates, and who was a member of the board on the
Table of Contents
Record Date or (ii) any person who subsequently becomes a member of the board, while such person is a member of the board, who is not an Acquiring Person or its affiliate or associate, or a representative of an Acquiring Person or its affiliates or associates, if such person's nomination for election or election to the board is recommended or approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors.
     . At any time after a person becomes an Acquiring Person (unless such person has beneficial ownership of 50% or more of the ordinary shares outstanding), the board may exchange all or part of the outstanding and exercisable Rights (other than Rights that have become null and void) at an exchange ratio of one ordinary share per Right (as adjusted pursuant to the terms of the Rights Agreement, the "Exchange Ratio").
Exchange of Rights for Ordinary Shares
     In addition, at any time that the board is permitted to exchange Rights for ordinary shares, the board may elect to adjust the terms of the Rights such that each holder of a Right (other than Rights that have become null and void) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof, in lieu of any other securities, a number of ordinary shares per Right equal to the Exchange Ratio at a price per ordinary share equal to the nominal value thereof.
     In certain circumstances the board may substitute cash or Preferred Shares for the ordinary shares to be issued upon such exchange or exercise of the Rights.
     . In the event that following a Stock Acquisition Date (i) Cooper Industries plc engages in a merger, scheme of arrangement or other business combination transaction in which Cooper Industries plc is not the surviving corporation, (ii) Cooper Industries plc engages in a merger, scheme of arrangement or other business combination transaction in which Cooper Industries plc is the surviving corporation and all or part of the ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc are changed or exchanged for shares or other securities of any other person or any other property or (iii) Cooper Industries plc sells or otherwise transfers more than 50% of its assets or earning power, then each holder of a Right (except for holders of Rights that have become null and void) will have the right to receive, upon exercise of the Right, ordinary shares of the Principal Party (as defined below) having a value equal to two times the Purchase Price.
"Flip-Over" Provision
     A "Principal Party" is defined in the Rights Agreement to mean, (a) in the case of a merger, scheme of arrangement or other business combination transaction described in (i) or (ii) in the above paragraph, the person who is the issuer of any securities into which ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc are converted in the merger, scheme of arrangement or business combination transaction, or, if no securities are issued, the person that is the other party to the merger, scheme of arrangement or business combination transaction and (b) in the case of a transaction described in (iii) in the above paragraph, the person who receives the greatest portion of the assets or earning power transferred in such transaction.
     . At any time prior to the earlier of (i) the time any person becomes an Acquiring Person and (ii) the Final Expiration Date, the board may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a redemption price of US$.01 per Right (payable in cash, ordinary shares or other form of consideration). Immediately upon the action of the board ordering such redemption, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate. The redemption price may be adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction.
Redemption of Rights by the Board
Table of Contents
     . Prior to the Distribution Date, and subject to the restriction in the following paragraph, any provision of the Rights Agreement may be supplemented or amended by Cooper Industries plc without the approval of any holders of certificates representing ordinary shares. Without limiting the foregoing, Cooper Industries plc may also, at any time prior to the time any person becomes an Acquiring Person, lower the acquiror ownership threshold at which dilution is triggered to not less than 10%. After the Distribution Date, the Rights Agreement may be amended by Cooper Industries plc without the approval of holders of Rights Certificates in order to (i) cure any ambiguity, (ii) correct or supplement defective or inconsistent provisions, (iii) shorten or lengthen any time period or (iv) make changes that do not adversely affect the interests of holders of Rights Certificates (other than the interests of an Acquiring Person or its affiliates or associates), except that Cooper Industries plc may not make any amendment pursuant to (iii) to lengthen (A) a time period relating to when the Rights may be redeemed at a time when the Rights are not redeemable or (B) any other time period unless such lengthening is for the purpose of protecting, enhancing or clarifying the rights and benefits of the holders of the Rights.
Amendment of the Rights Agreement
     No supplement or amendment may be made which changes the redemption price of the Rights, the Final Expiration Date, the Purchase Price or the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is exercisable, except that the board may increase the Purchase Price or extend the Final Expiration Date at any time prior to (i) a Stock Acquisition Date or (ii) the date of publication of a tender, exchange or takeover offer by any person for 15% of more of the outstanding ordinary shares.
     Notwithstanding the above, Cooper Industries plc may supplement or amend the Rights Agreement at any time without the approval of any holders of certificates representing ordinary shares or of any holders of Rights Certificates in order to conform the provisions of the Rights Agreement to applicable law.
     The Rights Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Rights Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.1.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The information under the heading "Debt Arrangements" in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
     The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.02 by reference.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
     The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference.
Table of Contents
     In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc adopted its memorandum and articles of association. The description of the rights of holders of Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares and comparison thereof to the rights of holders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. Class A common shares included under the headings "Description of Cooper Industries plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on July 16, 2009 (the "Transaction Proxy Statement") are incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference. Copies of Cooper Industries plc's memorandum and articles of association are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
Item 5.01. Changes in Control of Registrant.
     The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 5.01 by reference.
Item 5.02. Departures of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Directors and Officers
     In connection with the Transaction, the directors and executive officers of Cooper Industries, Ltd. immediately prior to the completion of the Transaction became the directors and executive officers of Cooper Industries plc. Cooper Industries plc's directors are divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class consisting, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire board. The initial division of the board of Cooper Industries plc into classes was the same as the classes for the directors of Cooper Industries, Ltd immediately prior to the completion of the Transaction. The term of the initial Class I directors shall terminate on the date of the 2010 annual general meeting; the term of the initial Class II directors shall terminate on the date of the 2011 annual general meeting; and the term of the initial Class III directors shall terminate on the date of the 2012 annual general meeting. At each annual general meeting of members beginning in 2010, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual general meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. In addition, in connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc replicated the committees that previously were in place for Cooper Industries, Ltd., which include an Audit Committee, a Management Development & Compensation Committee, a Committee on Nominations and Corporate Governance and an Executive Committee.
Indemnification Agreements
     In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper Industries plc are entering into deeds of indemnification substantially in the form filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 with each of the directors of Cooper Industries plc and its Secretary (the "Director and Secretary indemnification agreements") that provide that Cooper Industries, Ltd. will indemnify the indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against claims related to the indemnitee's service to Cooper Industries plc (or to Cooper Industries, Ltd. prior to the Transaction Time), except for claims relating to actions by the indemnitee that are determined by a court to constitute fraud or
Table of Contents
dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to Cooper Industries plc or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Industries, Ltd. The Director and Secretary indemnification agreements also provide that any and all indemnifiable expenses shall, if so requested by the indemnitee, be paid promptly as they are incurred, provided that the indemnitee must repay any such expense advance to the extent that the indemnitee is adjudged by the High Court of Ireland or the court in which such action was brought to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to Cooper Industries plc or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Industries, Ltd. Prior to seeking an indemnification payment or expense advance under the Director and Secretary indemnification agreement, the indemnitee shall seek an indemnification payment or expense advance under any applicable insurance policy and shall request that Cooper Industries plc consider in its discretion whether to make such indemnification payment or expense advance. In the event an indemnification payment or expense advance is not received pursuant to an insurance policy, or from Cooper Industries plc, within 60 calendar days of the later of the indemnitee's request of the insurer and his or her request of Cooper Industries plc, the indemnitee shall be entitled to receive such indemnification payment or expense advancement from Cooper Industries, Ltd. pursuant to the terms of the Director and Secretary indemnification agreement. In the event the indemnitee receives judgment in his or her favor or the claim against the indemnitee is otherwise disposed of in a manner that allows Cooper Industries plc to indemnify the indemnitee under its articles of association as then in effect, Cooper Industries plc will provide such indemnification to the indemnitee and will reimburse Cooper Industries, Ltd. for any indemnification or expense advance previously made by Cooper Industries, Ltd. in connection with such claim. A copy of the form of Director and Secretary indemnification agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Director and Secretary indemnification agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1.
     In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper Industries plc are entering into deeds of indemnification substantially in the form filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 with each of the executives of Cooper Industries plc (other than the directors and Secretary) (the "Officer indemnification agreements") that provide that Cooper Industries plc will indemnify the indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against claims related to the indemnitee's service to Cooper Industries plc (or to Cooper Industries, Ltd. prior to the Transaction Time), except for claims relating to actions by the indemnitee that are determined by a court to constitute fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to Cooper Industries plc or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Industries, Ltd. The Officer indemnification agreements also provide that any and all indemnifiable expenses shall, if so requested by the indemnitee, be paid promptly as they are incurred, provided that the indemnitee must repay any such expense advance to the extent that the indemnitee is adjudged by the High Court of Ireland or the court in which such action was brought to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to Cooper Industries plc or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Industries, Ltd. A copy of the form of Officer indemnification agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Officer indemnification agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.2.
Employee Share Plans and Awards
Table of Contents
     In connection with the Transaction, effective as of the Transaction Time, Cooper Industries plc assumed the existing obligations of Cooper Industries, Ltd. under the Plans, including all awards issued thereunder. Furthermore, the Plans have been amended to provide (1) that shares of Cooper Industries plc will be issued, held available or used to measure benefits as appropriate under the Plans, in lieu of shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd., including upon exercise of any options or upon the vesting of restricted stock units or performance share awards issued under those Plans; and (2) for the appropriate substitution of Cooper Industries plc for Cooper Industries, Ltd. in those Plans. A copy of each Plan as so amended is filed herewith as Exhibits 10.3 through 10.7 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the amended Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.3 through 10.7.
Item 5.03. Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference.
     In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc adopted its memorandum and articles of association. The description of the terms of Cooper Industries plc's memorandum and articles of association and comparison thereof to the terms of Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s memorandum of association and bye-laws included under the headings "Description of Cooper Industries plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in the Transaction Proxy Statement are incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference. Copies of Cooper Industries plc's memorandum and articles of association are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On September 4, 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd. received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda of a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") that effected a transaction (the "Transaction") that resulted in the holders of Class A common shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd., other than wholly owned subsidiaries of Cooper Industries, Ltd. that held Class A common shares (the "Class A Public Shareholders"), becoming ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries plc and Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc. The Scheme of Arrangement became effective upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies on September 8, 2009.
     At 7:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on September 8, 2009 (the "Transaction Time"), the following steps occurred effectively simultaneously:
Table of Contents
     Prior to the Transaction, the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Class A common shares and the associated Old Rights were listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "CBE" and registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries, Ltd. requested that the NYSE file with the SEC an application on Form 25 to strike the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Class A common shares and associated Old Rights from listing on the NYSE and from registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Cooper Industries, Ltd. expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate any of its remaining reporting obligations under the Exchange Act with respect to its Class A common shares and associated Old Rights.
     The Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares and the associated Rights are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. The Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares and associated Rights began trading on the NYSE under the symbol "CBE," the same symbol under which the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Class A common shares and associated Old Rights previously traded, on September 9, 2009.
     The issuance of ordinary shares by Cooper Industries plc in the Transaction was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act.
     Under Irish law, Cooper Industries plc requires "distributable reserves" in its unconsolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2009 (the "Irish Companies Acts") to enable it to make distributions (including the payment of cash dividends) to its shareholders, or to redeem or buy back shares. Immediately following implementation of the Transaction, the unconsolidated balance sheet of Cooper Industries plc did not contain any distributable reserves. We are seeking to create distributable reserves, which requires the approval of the Irish High Court. Such approval is expected to be obtained within six weeks of the consummation of the Transaction.
     On September 9, 2009, Cooper Industries plc issued a press release announcing the completion of the Transaction. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
     Set forth below is a description of the share capital of Cooper Industries plc and a discussion of certain Irish tax considerations. For purposes of the following, references to "we," "our," "Cooper Industries" or the "Company" refer to Cooper Industries plc.
Table of Contents
     The following description of Cooper Industries plc's share capital is a summary. This summary is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Cooper Industries plc's memorandum and articles of association, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. We encourage you to read those documents carefully.
Capitalization
     . The authorized share capital of Cooper Industries plc is 40,000 and $7,600,000, divided into 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share, 750,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.01 per share and 10,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.01 per share, which preferred shares may be designated and created as shares of any other classes or series of shares with the respective rights and restrictions determined by action of the board of directors. As discussed above under the heading "Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement" in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, 2,500,000 preferred shares have been designated as Preferred Shares. The authorized share capital includes 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share in order to satisfy statutory requirements for the incorporation of all Irish public limited companies.
Authorized Share Capital
     Cooper Industries plc may issue shares subject to the maximum prescribed by its authorized share capital contained in its memorandum of association. Pursuant to the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc issued approximately 167,000,000 ordinary shares. This means that Cooper Industries plc is able to issue further shares comprised of approximately 583,000,000 ordinary shares, par value of $0.01 per share, and 10,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.01 per share (as well as 40,000 ordinary shares, par value 1 per share). In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc also assumed Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s previously existing obligations to deliver shares under equity incentive plans and other similar employee awards pursuant to the terms thereof.
     As a matter of Irish company law, the directors of a company may issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the company or by an ordinary resolution adopted by the shareholders at a general meeting. On a poll, an "ordinary resolution" requires a majority of the total number of votes of the shares of Cooper Industries plc present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote at the meeting convened to consider the matter. The authority conferred can be granted for a maximum period of five years, at which point it must be renewed by the shareholders of the company by an ordinary resolution. Because of this requirement of Irish law, the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc authorize the board of directors of Cooper Industries plc to issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval for a period of five years from the date of Cooper Industries plc's incorporation.
     The authorized share capital may be increased by way of an ordinary resolution of Cooper Industries plc's shareholders.
Table of Contents
     The rights and restrictions to which the ordinary shares are subject are prescribed in Cooper Industries plc's articles of association. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association entitle the board of directors, without shareholder approval, to determine the terms of the preferred shares issued by Cooper Industries plc. Preferred shares may be preferred as to dividends, rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, Cooper Industries plc, or voting in such manner as the directors of Cooper Industries plc may resolve. The preferred shares may also be redeemable at the option of the holder of the preferred shares or at the option of Cooper Industries plc, or both, and may be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or classes, or of any other series, of Cooper Industries plc, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. The Company may also convert any of its shares into redeemable shares subject to a member being able to notify the Company of his or her unwillingness to have his or her shares so converted at any time prior to the date of conversion.
     Irish law does not recognize fractional shares held of record; accordingly, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association do not provide for the issuance of fractional shares of Cooper Industries plc, and the official Irish register of Cooper Industries plc will not reflect any fractional shares. Whenever as a result of an alteration or reorganization of the share capital of Cooper Industries plc any shareholder would become entitled to fractions of a share, the directors may, on behalf of those shareholders, sell the shares representing the fractions for the best price reasonably obtainable to any person and distribute the proceeds of sale in due proportion among those shareholders. This ability of the directors of Cooper Industries plc to dispose of fractional shares is required in order to comply with the Irish law prohibition on fractional shares held of record.
     . Immediately prior to the Transaction, the issued share capital of Cooper Industries plc was 40,000, comprised of 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share (the "Euro Share Capital"). In connection with the consummation of the Transaction, the Euro Share Capital was acquired by Cooper Industries plc and was then cancelled by Cooper Industries plc. Cooper Industries plc then issued approximately 167,000,000 ordinary shares having a par value of $0.01 each. All shares issued on completion of the Transaction were issued as fully paid up.
Issued Share Capital
Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options
     Certain statutory pre-emption rights apply automatically in favor of Cooper Industries plc's shareholders where shares in Cooper Industries plc are to be issued for cash. However, Cooper Industries plc has opted out of these pre-emption rights in its articles of association as permitted under Irish company law. Because Irish law requires this opt-out to be renewed every five years by a special resolution of the shareholders, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that this opt-out must be so renewed. On a poll, a "special resolution" requires not less than 75% of the votes of the shares of Cooper Industries plc present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote at the meeting convened to consider the matter. If the opt-out is not renewed, shares issued for cash must be offered to pre-existing shareholders of Cooper Industries plc pro rata to their existing shareholding before the shares can be issued to any new shareholders. The statutory pre-emption rights do not apply where shares are issued for non-cash consideration and do not apply to the issue of non-equity shares (that is, shares that have the right to participate only up to a specified amount in any income or capital distribution).
Table of Contents
     The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc provide that the board is authorized, from time to time, in its discretion, to grant such persons, for such periods and upon such terms as the board deems advisable, options to purchase such number of shares of any class or classes or of any series of any class as the board may deem advisable, and to cause warrants or other appropriate instruments evidencing such options to be issued. The Irish Companies Acts provide that directors may issue share warrants or options without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association or an ordinary resolution of shareholders. The board may issue shares upon exercise of warrants or options without shareholder approval or authorization.
     Cooper Industries plc is subject to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange that require shareholder approval of certain issuances.
Dividends
     Under Irish law, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. Distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of Cooper Industries plc less accumulated realized losses of Cooper Industries plc. In addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of Cooper Industries plc are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of Cooper Industries plc's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce Cooper Industries plc's net assets below such aggregate. Undistributable reserves include the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve fund and the amount by which Cooper Industries plc's accumulated unrealized profits, so far as not previously utilized by any capitalization, exceed Cooper Industries plc's accumulated unrealized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital.
     The determination as to whether or not Cooper Industries plc has sufficient distributable reserves to fund a dividend must be made by reference to "relevant accounts" of Cooper Industries plc. The "relevant accounts" are the last set of unconsolidated annual audited financial statements (except for the initial set of unconsolidated audited financial statements, which will be produced prior to the end of Cooper Industries plc's first fiscal year and therefore will not be annual accounts) prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts and any unaudited financial statements as are necessary to enable a reasonable judgment to be made as to the level of distributable reserves and which give a true and fair view of Cooper Industries plc's unconsolidated financial position in accord with accepted accounting practice. The annual audited accounts must be filed in the Companies Registration Office (the official public registry for companies in Ireland).
     Although Cooper Industries plc did not have any distributable reserves immediately following the Transaction Time, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves.
     The mechanism as to who declares a dividend and when a dividend shall become payable is governed by the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association authorize the directors to declare such dividends as appear justified from the profits of Cooper Industries plc without the approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. The board of directors may also recommend a dividend to be approved and declared by the shareholders at a general meeting. Although the shareholders may direct that the payment be made by distribution of assets, shares or cash, no dividend issued may exceed the amount
Table of Contents
recommended by the directors. The dividends can be declared and paid in the form of cash or non-cash assets.
     The directors of Cooper Industries plc may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money (if any) payable by such member to Cooper Industries plc in relation to the shares of Cooper Industries plc.
     The directors of Cooper Industries plc are also entitled to issue shares with preferred rights to participate in dividends declared by Cooper Industries plc. The holders of such preferred shares may, depending on their terms, be entitled to claim arrears of a declared dividend out of subsequently declared dividends in priority to ordinary shareholders.
     For information about the Irish tax issues relating to dividend payments, please see "Irish Tax Considerations" below.
Share Repurchases and Redemptions
     
Overview
     Article 3(d)(i) of Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provides that any share which Cooper Industries plc has acquired or agreed to acquire shall be deemed to be a redeemable share. Accordingly, for Irish company law purposes, the repurchase of shares by Cooper Industries plc will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares as described below under " Share Repurchases and Redemptions  Repurchases and Redemptions by Cooper Industries plc." If the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc did not contain Article 3(d)(i), repurchases by Cooper Industries plc would be subject to many of the same rules that apply to purchases of Cooper Industries plc shares by subsidiaries described below under " Share Repurchases and Redemptions  Purchases by Subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc," including the shareholder approval requirements described below and the requirement that any on-market purchases be effected on a "recognized stock exchange." Except where otherwise noted, when we refer elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K to repurchasing or buying back shares of Cooper Industries plc, we are referring to the redemption of shares by Cooper Industries plc pursuant to Article 3(d)(i) of the articles of association or the purchase of shares of Cooper Industries plc by a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, in each case in accordance with the Cooper Industries plc articles of association and Irish company law as described below.
     
Repurchases and Redemptions by Cooper Industries plc
     Under Irish law, a company can issue redeemable shares and redeem them out of distributable reserves (which are described above under " Dividends") or the proceeds of a new issue of shares for that purpose. Although Cooper Industries plc did not have any distributable reserves immediately following the Transaction Time, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves. The issue of redeemable shares may only be made by Cooper Industries plc where the nominal value of the issued share capital that is not redeemable is not less than 10% of the nominal value of the total issued share capital of Cooper Industries plc. All redeemable shares must also be fully paid and the terms of redemption of the shares must provide for payment on redemption. Redeemable shares may, upon redemption, be cancelled or held in treasury. Shareholder approval will not be required to redeem Cooper Industries plc shares.
Table of Contents
     The board of directors of Cooper Industries plc also is entitled to issue preferred shares which may be redeemed at the option of either Cooper Industries plc or the shareholder, or both, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. Please see " Capitalization  Authorized Share Capital" above for additional information on redeemable shares.
     Repurchased and redeemed shares may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. The nominal value of treasury shares held by Cooper Industries plc at any time must not exceed 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Cooper Industries plc. While Cooper Industries plc holds shares as treasury shares, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. Treasury shares may be cancelled by Cooper Industries plc or reissued subject to certain conditions.
     
Purchases by Subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc
     Under Irish law, it may be permissible for an Irish or non-Irish subsidiary to purchase shares of Cooper Industries plc either on-market or off-market. A general authority of the shareholders of Cooper Industries plc is required to allow a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc to make on-market purchases of Cooper Industries plc shares; however, as long as this general authority has been granted, no specific shareholder authority for a particular on-market purchase by a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc shares is required. We expect that Cooper Industries plc will seek to renew such general authority, which must expire no later than 18 months after the date on which it was granted, at the first annual general meeting of Cooper Industries plc in 2010 and at subsequent annual general meetings. In order for a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc to make an on-market purchase of Cooper Industries plc's ordinary shares, such shares must be purchased on a "recognized stock exchange." The NYSE, on which the shares of Cooper Industries plc became listed following the Transaction, is not currently specified as a recognized stock exchange for this purpose by Irish company law. We understand, however, that it is likely that the Irish authorities will take appropriate steps in the near future to add the NYSE to the list of recognized stock exchanges. For an off-market purchase by a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, the proposed purchase contract must be authorized by special resolution of the shareholders of Cooper Industries plc before the contract is entered into. The person whose shares are to be bought back cannot vote in favor of the special resolution and, for at least 21 days prior to the special resolution, the purchase contract must be on display or must be available for inspection by shareholders at the registered office of Cooper Industries plc.
     The number of shares held by the subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc at any time will count as treasury shares and will be included in any calculation of the permitted treasury share threshold of 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Cooper Industries plc. While a subsidiary holds shares of Cooper Industries plc, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. The acquisition of the shares of Cooper Industries plc by a subsidiary must be funded out of distributable reserves of the subsidiary.
     
Existing Share Repurchase Program
     On February 12, 2008, Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s board of directors authorized the repurchase of ten million common shares. On February 9, 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s board of directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares. Cooper Industries,
Table of Contents
Ltd. has also previously announced that its board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. This existing share repurchase program was adopted by Cooper Industries plc as described below, and Cooper Industries plc may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. As of August 31, 2009, 12,766,635 shares remained available under the existing share repurchase program plus the number of shares to be issued from time to time under equity compensation plans to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans.
     Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, (a) the board of directors of Cooper Industries plc authorized the repurchase of Cooper Industries plc shares by Cooper Industries plc and (b) Cooper Industries, Ltd. and its nominee shareholders of Cooper Industries plc authorized the purchase of Cooper Industries plc shares by subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc, such that Cooper Industries plc and its subsidiaries are authorized to purchase shares in an aggregate amount approximately equal to the remaining authorization under the Cooper Industries, Ltd. share repurchase program as of the Transaction Time.
     As noted above, because repurchases of Cooper Industries plc shares by Cooper Industries plc will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares pursuant to Article 3(d) of the articles of association, such repurchases may be made whether or not the NYSE is a "recognized stock exchange," and shareholder approval for such repurchases will not be required.
     However, because purchases of Cooper Industries plc shares by subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc may be made only on a "recognized stock exchange" and only if the required shareholder approval has been obtained, the shareholder authorization for purchases by subsidiaries of Cooper Industries plc described above was made effective as of the later of (a) the Transaction Time (which has occurred) and (b) the date on which the NYSE becomes a recognized stock exchange for this purpose. This authorization will lapse 18 months after effectiveness or such earlier time as it is renewed by the shareholders. We expect that we would seek shareholder approval to renew this authorization at the first annual general meeting of Cooper Industries plc.
Bonus Shares
     Under Cooper Industries plc's articles of association, the board may resolve to capitalize any amount credited to any reserve or fund available for distribution or the share premium account of Cooper Industries plc for issuance and distribution to shareholders as fully paid bonus shares on the same basis of entitlement as would apply in respect of a dividend distribution.
Consolidation and Division; Subdivision
     Under its articles of association, Cooper Industries plc may by ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger par value than its existing shares or subdivide its shares into smaller amounts than is fixed by its memorandum of association.
Reduction of Share Capital
Table of Contents
     Cooper Industries plc may, by ordinary resolution, cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, are unissued or have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and reduce the amount of its authorized share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled. Cooper Industries plc also may, by special resolution and subject to confirmation by the Irish High Court, reduce or cancel its issued share capital in any way.
General Meetings of Shareholders
     Cooper Industries plc is required to hold an annual general meeting within eighteen months of incorporation and at intervals of no more than fifteen months thereafter, provided that an annual general meeting is held in each calendar year following the first annual general meeting, no more than nine months after Cooper Industries plc's fiscal year-end. The first annual general meeting of Cooper Industries plc may be held outside Ireland. Thereafter, any annual general meeting may be held outside Ireland if a resolution so authorizing has been passed at the preceding annual general meeting. Because of the fifteen-month requirement described in this paragraph, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association include a provision reflecting this requirement of Irish law.
     Extraordinary general meetings of Cooper Industries plc may be convened by the Chairman of the board of directors, the board of directors, or on requisition of the shareholders holding not less than 10% of the paid up share capital of Cooper Industries plc carrying voting rights. In limited circumstances, Cooper Industries plc's auditors can require the board of directors to convene extraordinary general meetings of Cooper Industries plc. Extraordinary general meetings are generally held for the purposes of approving shareholder resolutions of Cooper Industries plc as may be required from time to time.
     Notice of a general meeting must be given to all shareholders of Cooper Industries plc and to the auditors of Cooper Industries plc. The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc provide that the maximum notice period is 60 days. The minimum notice periods are 21 days' notice in writing for an annual general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting to approve a special resolution and 14 days' notice in writing for any other extraordinary general meeting. General meetings may be called by shorter notice, but only with the consent of the auditors of Cooper Industries plc and of the shareholders entitled to attend and vote thereat. Because of the 21-day and 14-day requirements described in this paragraph, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association include provisions reflecting these requirements of Irish law.
all
     In the case of an extraordinary general meeting convened on requisition of the shareholders of Cooper Industries plc, the proposed purpose of the meeting must be set out in the requisition notice, which may contain any resolution. Upon receipt of this requisition notice, the board of directors has 21 days to convene a meeting of Cooper Industries plc's shareholders to vote on the matters set out in the requisition notice. This meeting must be held within two months of the receipt of the requisition notice. If the board of directors does not convene the meeting within such 21-day period, the requisitioning shareholders, or any of them representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of the requisitioning shareholders, may themselves convene a meeting, which meeting must be held within three months of the receipt by the board of directors of the requisition notice.
Table of Contents
     The only matters which must, as a matter of Irish company law, be transacted at an annual general meeting are the presentation of the annual accounts, balance sheet and reports of the directors and auditors, the appointment of auditors and the fixing of the auditor's remuneration (or delegation of same). If no resolution is made in respect of the reappointment of an auditor at an annual general meeting, the previous auditor will be deemed to have continued in office.
     If the directors become aware that the net assets of Cooper Industries plc are half or less of the amount of Cooper Industries plc's called-up share capital, the directors of Cooper Industries plc must convene an extraordinary general meeting of Cooper Industries plc's shareholders not later than 28 days from the date that they learn of this fact. This meeting must be convened for the purposes of considering whether any, and if so what, measures should be taken to address the situation.
Voting
     Where a poll is demanded at a general meeting, every shareholder shall have one vote for each ordinary share that he or she holds as of the record date for the meeting. Voting rights on a poll may be exercised by shareholders registered in Cooper Industries plc's share register as of the record date for the meeting or by a duly appointed proxy of such a registered shareholder, which proxy need not be a shareholder. Where interests in shares are held by a nominee trust company this company may exercise the rights of the beneficial holders on their behalf as their proxy. All proxies must be appointed in the manner prescribed by Cooper Industries plc's articles of association. The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc permit the appointment of proxies by the shareholders to be notified to Cooper Industries plc electronically.
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that all resolutions shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by: the chairman; at least three shareholders present in person or represented by proxy; any shareholder or shareholders present in person or proxy and holding between them not less than 10% of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at such meeting; or a shareholder or shareholders present in person or represented by proxy holding shares in the company conferring the right to vote at such meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than 10% of the total sum paid up on all such shares conferring such right. Each Cooper Industries plc ordinary shareholder of record as of the record date has one vote at a general meeting on a show of hands.
     In accordance with the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc, the directors of Cooper Industries plc may from time to time cause Cooper Industries plc to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have such voting rights as may be specified in the terms of such preferred shares.
     Treasury shares will not be entitled to vote at general meetings of shareholders.
     Irish company law requires special resolutions of the shareholders at a general meeting to approve certain matters. Examples of matters requiring special resolutions include:
Table of Contents
     A scheme of arrangement with shareholders requires a court order from the Irish High Court and the approval of a majority in number representing 75% of the shareholders present and voting, whether in person or by proxy.
Variation of Class Rights Attaching to Shares
     Variation of all or any special rights attached to any class of shares of Cooper Industries plc is addressed in the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc as well as the Irish Companies Acts. Any variation of class rights attaching to the issued shares of Cooper Industries plc must be approved in writing by holders of three quarters (3/4) of the issued shares in that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Quorum for General Meetings
     The holders of shares entitling them to exercise a majority of the voting power of Cooper Industries plc on the relevant record date shall constitute a quorum to hold a general meeting of the shareholders. No business may take place at a general meeting of Cooper Industries plc if a quorum is not present in person or by proxy. The board of directors has no authority to waive quorum requirements stipulated in the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc. Abstentions and broker non-votes will be counted as present for purposes of determining whether there is a quorum in respect of the proposals to be voted upon by shareholders.
Inspection of Books and Records
Table of Contents
     Under Irish law, shareholders have the right to: (a) receive a copy of the memorandum and articles of association of Cooper Industries plc and any act of the Irish Government which alters the memorandum of association of Cooper Industries plc; (b) inspect and obtain copies of the minutes of general meetings and resolutions of Cooper Industries plc; (c) inspect and receive a copy of the register of shareholders, register of directors and secretaries, register of directors' interests and other statutory registers maintained by Cooper Industries plc; (d) receive copies of balance sheets and directors' and auditors' reports which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting; and (e) receive balance sheets of a subsidiary company of Cooper Industries plc which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting for the preceding ten years. The auditors of Cooper Industries plc also have the right to inspect all books, records and vouchers of Cooper Industries plc. If required by law, as currently is the case, the auditors' report must be circulated to the shareholders with copies of the balance sheet and directors' report 21 days before the annual general meeting and must be read to the shareholders at Cooper Industries plc's annual general meeting.
Acquisitions and Appraisal Rights
     There are a number of mechanisms for acquiring an Irish public limited company, including:
     Under Irish law, there is no general requirement for a company's shareholders to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of a company's property and assets.
Table of Contents
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
     Under the Irish Companies Acts, there is a notification requirement for shareholders who acquire or cease to be interested in 5% of the shares of an Irish public limited company. A shareholder of Cooper Industries plc must therefore make such a notification to Cooper Industries plc if as a result of a transaction the shareholder will be interested in 5% or more of the shares of Cooper Industries plc; or if as a result of a transaction a shareholder who was interested in more than 5% of the shares of Cooper Industries plc ceases to be so interested. Where a shareholder is interested in more than 5% of the shares of Cooper Industries plc, any alteration of his or her interest that brings his or her total holding through the nearest whole percentage number, whether an increase or a reduction, must be notified to Cooper Industries plc. The relevant percentage figure is calculated by reference to the aggregate par value of the shares in which the shareholder is interested as a proportion of the entire par value of Cooper Industries plc's share capital. Where the percentage level of the shareholder's interest does not amount to a whole percentage this figure may be rounded down to the next whole number. All such disclosures should be notified to Cooper Industries plc within 5 business days of the transaction or alteration of the shareholder's interests that gave rise to the requirement to notify. Where a person fails to comply with the notification requirements described above no right or interest of any kind whatsoever in respect of any shares in Cooper Industries plc concerned, held by such person, shall be enforceable by such person, whether directly or indirectly, by action or legal proceeding. However, such person may apply to the court to have the rights attaching to the shares concerned reinstated.
     In addition to the above disclosure requirement, Cooper Industries plc, under the Irish Companies Acts, may by notice in writing require a person whom Cooper Industries plc knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be, or at any time during the three years immediately preceding the date on which such notice is issued, to have been interested in shares comprised in Cooper Industries plc's relevant share capital to: (a) indicate whether or not it is the case, and (b) where such person holds or has during that time held an interest in the shares of Cooper Industries plc, to give such further information as may be required by Cooper Industries plc including particulars of such person's own past or present interests in shares of Cooper Industries plc. Any information given in response to the notice is required to be given in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice.
     Where such a notice is served by Cooper Industries plc on a person who is or was interested in shares of Cooper Industries plc and that person fails to give Cooper Industries plc any information required within the reasonable time specified, Cooper Industries plc may apply to court for an order directing that the affected shares be subject to certain restrictions.
     Under the Irish Companies Acts, the restrictions that may be placed on the shares by the court are as follows:
Table of Contents
     Where the shares in Cooper Industries plc are subject to these restrictions, the court may order the shares to be sold and may also direct that the shares shall cease to be subject to these restrictions.
Anti-Takeover Provisions
     
Business Combinations with Related Persons
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association include a provision according to which the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of Cooper Industries plc on the relevant record date is required for the approval or authorization of any "Business Combination" with a "Related Person"; provided, however, that the 80% voting requirement is not applicable if:
     A "Business Combination" is generally defined as a merger, sale or other disposition of all or a substantial part of the assets of Cooper Industries plc or of a Related Person, and the issuance or transfer by Cooper Industries plc of any of its securities to a Related Person, among other transactions. A "Related Person" is generally defined as a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, as of the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice
Table of Contents
of and to vote on any Business Combination, or immediately prior to the consummation of such transaction, in the aggregate 20% or more of the outstanding ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc. A "Continuing Director" is generally defined as someone who either (a) was a member of the board of directors of Cooper Industries plc immediately prior to the time that the Related Person involved in a Business Combination became a Related Person, or (b) was designated (before his or her initial election as director) as a Continuing Director by two-thirds (2/3) of the then Continuing Directors.
     
Shareholder Rights Plans and Share Issuances
     Irish law does not expressly prohibit companies from issuing share purchase rights or adopting a shareholder rights plan as an anti-takeover measure. As discussed above under the heading "Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement" in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, in connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc entered into the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement.
     Subject to Cooper Industries plc's articles of association, Irish law and the Irish Takeover Rules described below, the board also has power to issue any authorized and unissued shares of Cooper Industries plc, and, in the case of preferred shares, on such terms and conditions as it may determine (as described above under " Capitalization  Authorized Share Capital") and any such action should be taken in the best interests of Cooper Industries plc. It is possible, however, that the terms and conditions of any issue of preferred shares could discourage a takeover or other transaction that holders of some or a majority of the ordinary shares believe to be in their best interests or in which holders might receive a premium for their shares over the then market price of the shares.
     
Irish Takeover Rules and Substantial Acquisition Rules
     A transaction by virtue of which a third party is seeking to acquire 30% or more of the voting rights of Cooper Industries plc will be governed by the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997 and the Irish Takeover Rules made thereunder and will be regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel. The "General Principles" of the Irish Takeover Rules and certain important aspects of the Irish Takeover Rules are described below.
     
General Principles
     The Irish Takeover Rules are built on the following General Principles which will apply to any transaction regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel:
Table of Contents
     
Mandatory Bid
     If an acquisition of shares were to increase the aggregate holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in Cooper Industries plc, the acquirer and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make a cash offer for the outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the shares by the acquirer or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by an acquisition of shares by a person holding (together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in Cooper Industries plc if the effect of such acquisition were to increase the percentage of the voting rights held by that person (together with its concert parties) by 0.05% within a twelve-month period. A single holder (that is, a holder excluding any parties acting in concert with the holder) holding more than 50% of the voting rights of a company is not subject to this rule.
     
Voluntary Bid; Requirements to Make a Cash Offer and Minimum Price Requirements
     A voluntary offer is an offer that is not a mandatory offer. If a bidder or any of its concert parties acquire ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc within the period of three months prior to the commencement of the offer period, the offer price must be not less than the highest price paid for Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares by the bidder or its concert parties during that period. The Irish Takeover Panel has the power to extend the "look back" period to 12 months if the Irish Takeover Panel, having regard to the General Principles, believes it is appropriate to do so.
     If the bidder or any of its concert parties has acquired ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc (a) during the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period which represent more than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc or (b) at any time after the commencement of the offer period, the offer shall be in cash (or accompanied by a full
Table of Contents
cash alternative) and the price per Cooper Industries plc ordinary share shall be not less than the highest price paid by the bidder or its concert parties during, in the case of (a), the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period and, in the case of (b), the offer period. The Irish Takeover Panel may apply this rule to a bidder who, together with its concert parties, has acquired less than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc in the 12-month period prior to the commencement of the offer period if the Panel, having regard to the General Principles, considers it just and proper to do so.
     An offer period will generally commence from the date of the first announcement of the offer or proposed offer.
     
Substantial Acquisition Rules
     The Irish Takeover Rules also contain rules governing substantial acquisitions of shares which restrict the speed at which a person, together with any concert parties, may increase his or her holding of shares and rights over shares to an aggregate of between 15% and 30% of the voting rights of Cooper Industries plc. Except in certain circumstances, an acquisition or series of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares representing 10% or more of the voting rights of Cooper Industries plc is prohibited, if such acquisition(s), when aggregated with shares or rights already held, would result in the acquirer, together with any concert parties, holding 15% or more but less than 30% of the voting rights of Cooper Industries plc and such acquisitions are made within a period of seven days. These rules also require accelerated disclosure of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares relating to such holdings.
     
Frustrating Action
     Under the Irish Takeover Rules, the board of directors of Cooper Industries plc is not permitted to take any action which might frustrate an offer for the shares of Cooper Industries plc once the board of directors has received an approach which may lead to an offer or has reason to believe an offer is imminent except as noted below. Potentially frustrating actions such as (a) the issue of shares, options or convertible securities, (b) material disposals, (c) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (d) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any time during which the board has reason to believe an offer is imminent. Exceptions to this prohibition are available where:
Table of Contents
     For other provisions that could be considered to have an anti-takeover effect, please see above at " Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options" and " Disclosure of Interests in Shares," in addition to " Corporate Governance," " Election of Directors," " Vacancies on Board of Directors," " Removal of Directors," " Shareholder Consent to Action Without Meeting," " Director Nominations; Proposals of Shareholders" and " Amendment of Governing Documents" below.
Corporate Governance
     The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc delegate authority over the management of Cooper Industries plc to the board of directors. The board of directors may delegate management of Cooper Industries plc to committees of the board, executives or to a management team, but regardless, the directors remain responsible, as a matter of Irish law, for the proper management of the affairs of Cooper Industries plc. In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc replicated the committees that previously were in place for Cooper Industries, Ltd., which include an Audit Committee, a Management Development & Compensation Committee, a Committee on Nominations and Corporate Governance, and an Executive Committee. In addition, Cooper Industries plc adopted Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s corporate governance principles.
Legal Name; Formation; Fiscal Year; Registered Office
     The legal name of Cooper Industries plc is Cooper Industries public limited company. Cooper Industries plc was incorporated in Ireland as a public limited company on June 4, 2009 with company registration number 471954. Cooper Industries plc's fiscal year ends on December 31 and Cooper Industries plc's registered address is 5 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, Ireland.
Duration; Dissolution; Rights upon Liquidation
     Cooper Industries plc's duration is unlimited. Cooper Industries plc may be dissolved at any time by way of either a shareholders' voluntary winding up or a creditors' voluntary winding up. In the case of a shareholders' voluntary winding up, the consent of not less than 75% of the votes of the shareholders of Cooper Industries plc cast at a general meeting is required. Cooper Industries plc may also be dissolved by way of court order on the application of a creditor, or by the Companies Registration Office as an enforcement measure where Cooper Industries plc has failed to file certain returns.
     The rights of the shareholders to a return of Cooper Industries plc's assets on dissolution or winding up, following the settlement of all claims of creditors, may be prescribed in Cooper Industries plc's articles of association or the terms of any preferred shares issued by the directors of Cooper Industries plc from time to time. The holders of preferred shares in particular may have the right to priority in a dissolution or winding up of Cooper Industries plc. If the articles of association contain no specific provisions in respect of a dissolution or winding up then, subject to the priorities of any creditors, the assets will be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the paid-up par value of the shares held. Cooper Industries plc's articles provide that the
Table of Contents
preferred shares may be entitled to such rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, Cooper Industries plc, as the directors will fix at the time of issuance.
Uncertificated Shares
     Holders of ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc do not have the right to require Cooper Industries plc to issue certificates for their shares. Cooper Industries plc will only issue uncertificated ordinary shares, but retains the right to issue certificates at its sole discretion.
Stock Exchange Listing
     Immediately following the Transaction Time, the Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares became listed on the NYSE under the symbol "CBE," the same symbol under which the Class A common shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd. previously were listed. We do not plan to be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange at the present time.
No Sinking Fund
     The shares have no sinking fund provisions.
No Liability for Further Calls or Assessments
     The shares issued in the Transaction were duly and validly issued and fully paid.
Transfer and Registration of Shares
     Cooper Industries plc's share register is maintained by its transfer agent. Registration in this share register is determinative of membership in Cooper Industries plc. A shareholder of Cooper Industries plc who holds shares beneficially is not the holder of record of such shares. Instead, the depository (for example, Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC) or other nominee is the holder of record of such shares. Accordingly, a transfer of shares from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who also holds such shares beneficially through the same depository or other nominee will not be registered in Cooper Industries plc's share register, as the depository or other nominee will remain the record holder of such shares.
     A duly stamped written instrument of transfer is required under Irish law in order to register on Cooper Industries plc's official share register any transfer of shares (a) from a person who holds such shares directly to any other person, (b) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who holds such shares directly, or (c) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to another person who holds such shares beneficially where the transfer involves a change in the depository or other nominee that is the record owner of the transferred shares. An instrument of transfer also is required for a shareholder who directly holds shares to transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa). Such instruments of transfer may give rise to Irish stamp duty. Where such stamp duty arises, it must be paid in order to have the instrument of transfer duly stamped prior to registration of the transfer on Cooper Industries plc's official Irish share register. A person wishing to acquire shares directly may need to purchase the shares through a broker account and then transfer such shares into his or her own name.
Table of Contents
     We currently intend to pay (or cause one of our subsidiaries to pay) stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially through brokers who in turn hold those shares through DTC. In other cases Cooper Industries plc may, in its absolute discretion, pay (or cause one of its subsidiaries to pay) any stamp duty. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Cooper Industries plc (a) may seek reimbursement from the buyer or seller, at its discretion, (b) may set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the buyer or seller, at its discretion, of those shares and (c) may claim a first and permanent lien on the Cooper Industries plc shares on which stamp duty has been paid by Cooper Industries plc or its subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid. Cooper Industries plc's lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Cooper Industries plc shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by Cooper Industries plc. Alternatively, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that the board may implement a mechanism in respect of the sale of shares either by or to a shareholder who holds them directly, so that the sale is effected by way of a redemption of the shares of the seller that are the subject of the sale and a new issue of an equal number of shares to the buyer.
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association delegate to Cooper Industries plc's Secretary or Assistant Secretary the authority to execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of a transferring party. In order to help ensure that the official share register is regularly updated to reflect trading of Cooper Industries plc shares occurring through normal electronic systems, we intend to regularly produce any required instruments of transfer in connection with any transactions for which we pay stamp duty (subject to the reimbursement and set-off rights described above). In the event that we notify one or both of the parties to a share transfer that we believe stamp duty is required to be paid in connection with such transfer and that we will not pay such stamp duty, such parties may either themselves arrange for the execution of the required instrument of transfer (and may request a form of instrument of transfer from Cooper Industries plc for this purpose) or request that Cooper Industries plc execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of the transferring party in a form determined by Cooper Industries plc. In either event, if the parties to the share transfer have the instrument of transfer duly stamped (to the extent required) and then provide it to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent, the transferee will be registered as the legal owner of the relevant shares on Cooper Industries plc's official Irish share register (subject to the matters described below).
     The board of directors of Cooper Industries plc may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of one class of share only.
     The registration of transfers may be suspended by the directors at such times and for such period, not exceeding in the whole 30 days in each year, as the directors may from time to time determine.
Election of Directors
      The Irish Companies Acts provide for a minimum of two directors. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide for a minimum of seven directors and a maximum of thirteen. The directors are divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each
Table of Contents
class shall consist, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire board. The initial division of the board into classes was the same as the classes for the directors of Cooper Industries, Ltd. immediately prior to the completion of the Transaction. The term of the initial Class I directors shall terminate on the date of the 2010 annual general meeting; the term of the initial Class II directors shall terminate on the date of the 2011 annual general meeting; and the term of the initial Class III directors shall terminate on the date of the 2012 annual general meeting. At each annual general meeting of members beginning in 2010, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual general meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible. In no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. A director shall hold office until the annual general meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
     Directors are elected by ordinary resolution at a general meeting. Irish law requires majority voting for the election of directors, which could result in the number of directors falling below the minimum prescribed by the articles due to the failure of nominees to be elected. Accordingly, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that if, at any general meeting of shareholders, the number of directors is reduced below the minimum prescribed by the articles of association due to the failure of any persons nominated to be directors to be elected, then in those circumstances, the nominee or nominees who receive the highest number of votes in favor of election shall be elected in order to maintain such prescribed minimum number of directors and each such director shall remain a director (subject to the provisions of the Irish Companies Acts and the articles) only until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of Cooper Industries plc unless such director is elected by the shareholders during such meeting.
Vacancies on Board of Directors
     Any vacancy on the board of directors, including a vacancy that results from an increase in the number of directors or from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal of a director, shall be deemed a casual vacancy. Subject to the terms of any one or more classes or series of preferred shares, any casual vacancy may be filled by decision of a majority of the board then in office, provided that a quorum is present.
     Any director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors of such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor. Subject to Irish law and the articles of association, during any vacancy in the board of directors, the remaining directors shall have full power to act as the board of directors of Cooper Industries plc.
Removal of Directors
     The Irish Companies Acts provide that notwithstanding anything contained in the articles of association of a company or in any agreement between that company and a director, the shareholders may by an ordinary resolution remove a director from office before the expiration
Table of Contents
of his or her term. Because of this provision of the Irish Companies Acts, the articles of association of Cooper Industries plc provide that Cooper Industries plc may, by ordinary resolution, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office notwithstanding anything in any agreement between Cooper Industries plc and the removed director.
Board and Committee Composition; Management
     The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc provide that the board of directors at any time may elect from its number an executive committee and other committees, each of which shall consist of not less than three directors. Each member of each such committee shall hold office at the pleasure of the board and may be removed by the board at any time with or without cause. Vacancies occurring in the committees may be filled by the board. Except as the executive committee's powers and duties may be limited or otherwise prescribed by the board, the executive committee, during the intervals between the meetings of the board, shall possess and may exercise all of the powers of the board in the management and control of the business and property of Cooper Industries plc; and other committees shall have such powers of the board as shall be from time to time delegated to them by the board; provided, however, that no committee shall be empowered to elect directors to fill vacancies among the directors or on any committee of the directors.
Duties of the Board of Directors
     The directors of Cooper Industries plc have certain statutory and fiduciary duties. All of the directors have equal and overall responsibility for the management of Cooper Industries plc (although directors who also serve as employees have additional responsibilities and duties arising under their employment arrangements and are expected to exercise a greater degree of skill and diligence than non-executive directors). The principal directors' duties include the common law fiduciary duties of good faith and exercising due care and skill. The statutory duties include ensuring the maintenance of proper books of account, having annual accounts prepared, having an annual audit performed, the duty to maintain certain registers and make certain filings as well as disclosure of personal interests. Particular duties also apply to directors of insolvent companies (for example, the directors could be liable to sanctions where they are deemed by the court to have carried on the business of Cooper Industries plc while insolvent, without due regard to the interests of creditors). For public limited companies like Cooper Industries plc, directors are under a specific duty to ensure that the secretary is a person with the requisite knowledge and experience to discharge the role.
Indemnification of Directors and Officers; Insurance
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association confer an indemnity on its directors and Secretary only in the limited circumstances permitted by the Irish Companies Acts. The Irish Companies Acts prescribe that such an indemnity only permits a company to pay the costs or discharge the liability of a director or the secretary where judgment is given in any civil or criminal action in respect of such costs or liability, or where an Irish court grants relief because the director or secretary acted honestly and reasonably and ought fairly to be excused. This restriction does not apply to executives who are not directors or the Secretary of Cooper Industries plc. Any provision which seeks to indemnify a director or secretary of an Irish company over and
Table of Contents
above this shall be void under Irish law, whether contained in its articles of association or any contract between the director or secretary and the company.
     In addition, Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that Cooper Industries plc shall indemnify any current or former executive of Cooper Industries plc (excluding any directors or Secretary) or any person who is serving or has served at the request of Cooper Industries plc as a director, executive or trustee of another company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses, including attorneys' fees, judgements, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, other than an action by or in the right of Cooper Industries plc, to which he or she was, is, or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that he or she is or was such a director, executive or trustee, provided always that such indemnity shall not extend to any matter which would render it void pursuant to the Irish Companies Acts. In the case of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of Cooper Industries plc, Cooper Industries plc shall indemnify each such person against expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and reasonably incurred in connection with the defense or the settlement thereof, except no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duty to Cooper Industries plc unless and only to the extent that the High Court of Ireland or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper.
     The directors of Cooper Industries plc may on a case-by-case basis decide at their discretion that it is in the best interest of Cooper Industries plc to indemnify an individual director from any liability arising from his or her position as a director of Cooper Industries plc. However, this discretion must be exercised bona fide in the best interests of Cooper Industries plc as a whole.
     Irish companies may take out directors and officers liability insurance, as well as other types of insurance, for their directors and officers. Cooper Industries plc has purchased and maintains a directors' and officers' liability policy.
     In connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper Industries plc are entering into the Director and Secretary indemnification agreements with each of the directors and the Secretary of Cooper Industries plc, and Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper Industries plc are entering into the Officer indemnification agreements with each of the executives of Cooper Industries plc (other than the directors and the Secretary). The information under the heading "Indemnification Agreements" in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
8-K
Limitation on Director Liability
     Under Irish law, a company may not exempt its directors from liability for negligence or a breach of duty. However, where a breach of duty has been established, directors may be statutorily exempted by an Irish court from personal liability for negligence or breach of duty if,
Table of Contents
among other things, the court determines that they have acted honestly and reasonably, and that they may fairly be excused as a result.
Conflicts of Interest
     As a matter of Irish law, a director is under a general fiduciary duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Directors who have a personal interest in a proposed transaction or arrangement with Cooper Industries plc are required to declare the nature of their interest, whether direct or indirect, at a meeting of the directors of Cooper Industries plc. Cooper Industries plc is required to maintain a register of such declared interests which must be available for inspection by the shareholders. Although Irish law and Cooper Industries plc's articles of association would not prohibit such director from participating in any vote in relation to such proposed transaction or arrangement following such disclosure, he or she would be prohibited from doing so pursuant to the policy on conflicts of interest that Cooper Industries plc adopted in connection with the Transaction. The fiduciary duty of a director to avoid conflicts of interest also extends to not making personal profit from opportunities that result from directorship.
Shareholders' Suits
     In Ireland, the decision to institute proceedings is generally taken by a company's board of directors who will usually be empowered to manage the company's business. In certain limited circumstances, a shareholder may be entitled to bring a derivative action on behalf of Cooper Industries plc. The central question at issue in deciding whether a minority shareholder may be permitted to bring a derivative action is whether, unless the action is brought, a wrong committed against Cooper Industries plc would otherwise go un-redressed.
     The principal case law in Ireland indicates that to bring a derivative action a person must first establish a prima facie case (1) that the company is entitled to the relief claimed and (2) that the action falls within one of the five exceptions derived from case law, as follows:
     The shareholders of Cooper Industries plc may also bring proceedings against Cooper Industries plc where the affairs of Cooper Industries plc are being conducted, or the powers of the directors are being exercised, in a manner oppressive to the shareholders or in disregard of their interests. Oppression connotes conduct which is burdensome, harsh or wrong. The conduct must relate to the internal management of Cooper Industries plc. This is an Irish statutory remedy and the court can grant any order it sees fit, usually providing for the purchase or transfer of the shares of any shareholder.
Table of Contents
Shareholder Consent to Action Without Meeting
     The Irish Companies Acts provide that shareholders may approve a resolution without a meeting if (a) shareholders sign the written resolution and (b) the company's articles of association permit written resolutions of shareholders. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide shareholders with the right to take action by unanimous written consent as permitted by Irish law.
all
Record Dates for Shareholder Meetings
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide for the board to fix a record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to: (a) notice of and/or to vote at any general meeting of Cooper Industries plc or any adjournment or postponement thereof; (b) consent to corporate action in writing without a general meeting of the company; (c) receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of rights; (d) exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of shares; or (e) for the purpose of any other action permitted by law. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining shareholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of the business day on which the board adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Director Nominations; Proposals of Shareholders
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that at any annual general meeting, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting: by or at the direction of the board of directors; or by any shareholder who complies with the procedures set forth in Cooper Industries plc's articles of association. For business to be properly brought before an annual general meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to Cooper Industries plc's Secretary and satisfied the requirements under applicable rules promulgated by the SEC or the NYSE or any other exchange on which the Cooper Industries plc's securities are traded.
     To be timely for consideration at the annual general meeting, a shareholder's notice must be received by the Secretary of Cooper Industries plc not less than 45 calendar days, or such greater length of time as permitted by appropriate rules of the SEC, in advance of the anniversary of the date that Cooper Industries plc's proxy statement was released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual general meeting (or no later than January 27, 2010 with respect to the 2010 annual general meeting).
     To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the annual general meeting: (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual general meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual general meeting, (b) the name and record address of such shareholder, (c) the class or series and number of shares of Cooper Industries plc which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business, and (e) a representation that such shareholder intends to
Table of Contents
appear in person or by proxy at the annual general meeting to bring such business before the meeting. To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary regarding nomination of any person for election to the board of directors must also set forth as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director: (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (c) the class or series and number of shares of Cooper Industries plc which are owned beneficially or of record by the person, and (d) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
     The articles of association of Cooper Industries plc provide that, except as provided by law, at an extraordinary general meeting, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the board. In addition, the Irish Companies Acts provide that shareholders holding not less than 10% of the total voting rights may call an extraordinary general meeting for the purpose of considering director nominations or other proposals, as described above under "General Meetings of Shareholders."
Adjournment of Shareholder Meetings
     Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that at any meeting duly called at which a quorum is present, the holders of a majority of the voting shares represented thereat may adjourn such meeting from time to time without notice other than by announcement of the chairman of the meeting. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association also provide that any meeting duly called at which a quorum is not present shall be adjourned and Cooper Industries plc shall provide a valid notice in the event that such meeting is to be reconvened.
Amendment of Governing Documents
     Irish companies may only alter their memorandum and articles of association by at least the passing of a special resolution. In general the articles of association would typically be altered, changed, or amended, or superseded by new articles, in whole or in part, on the recommendation of the board of directors, and would be subject to approval by special resolution of shareholders at an annual or extraordinary general meeting called for such purpose or without a meeting by the written consent of all of the holders of record of shares of Cooper Industries plc. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of Cooper Industries plc's voting power on the relevant record date shall be required to alter, amend or repeal certain provisions of the articles of association, including those governing the number, election and term of directors. An 80% shareholder vote also generally is required to amend, change or repeal the articles described above under "Anti-Takeover ProvisionsBusiness Combinations with Related Persons," unless two-thirds (2/3) of the Continuing Directors recommend such amendment, change or repeal to shareholders, in which case a special resolution of shareholders of Cooper Industries plc on the relevant record date shall be required.
Table of Contents
Enforcement of Civil Liabilities Against Foreign Persons
     Cooper Industries plc has been advised by its Irish counsel, Arthur Cox, that a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the United States based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in Ireland. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:
     An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment.
Scope of Discussion
     The following is a general summary of the main Irish tax considerations applicable to certain investors who are the beneficial owners of Cooper Industries plc shares. It is based on existing Irish law and practices in effect on the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and on discussions and correspondence with the Irish Revenue Commissioners. Legislative, administrative or judicial changes may modify the tax consequences described below.
     The statements do not constitute tax advice and are intended only as a general guide. Furthermore, this information applies only to Cooper Industries plc shares held as capital assets and does not apply to all categories of shareholders, such as dealers in securities, trustees, insurance companies, collective investment schemes and shareholders who have, or who are deemed to have, acquired their Cooper Industries plc shares by virtue of an office or employment. This summary is not exhaustive and shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax consequences in Ireland, or other relevant jurisdictions, of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of the Cooper Industries plc shares.
Withholding Tax on Dividends
     Distributions made by Cooper Industries plc are generally subject to dividend withholding tax ("DWT") at the standard rate of income tax (currently 20 percent) unless one of the exemptions described below applies, which we believe will be the case for the majority of shareholders. For DWT purposes, a dividend includes any distribution made by Cooper Industries plc to its shareholders, including cash dividends, non-cash dividends and additional stock or units taken in lieu of a cash dividend. Cooper Industries plc is responsible for withholding DWT at source and forwarding the relevant payment to the Irish Revenue Commissioners.
Table of Contents
     When we refer in this discussion of withholding tax to shares held "beneficially" through "brokers," we are specifically referring to shares held beneficially through brokers who in turn hold those shares through DTC. Shareholders who hold shares beneficially through brokers who do not hold those shares through DTC should consult their own tax advisors.
     Certain shareholders (both individual and corporate) are entitled to an exemption from DWT. In particular, a non-Irish resident shareholder is not subject to DWT on dividends received from Cooper Industries plc if the shareholder is:
and provided that, in all cases noted above but subject to the matters described below, the shareholder has provided the appropriate forms to his or her broker at least 7 business days (and the relevant information is further transmitted to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the dividend (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly).
     Cooper Industries plc has an agreement in place with The Bank of New York Mellon ("BNYM") (which is recognized by the Irish Revenue Commissioners as a "qualifying intermediary") which satisfies one of the Irish requirements for dividends to be paid free of DWT to certain shareholders who hold their shares through DTC, as described below. The agreement generally provides for certain arrangements relating to cash distributions in respect of those shares of Cooper Industries plc (the "Deposited Securities") that are held through DTC. The agreement provides that the qualifying intermediary shall distribute or otherwise make available to Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC, any cash dividend or other cash distribution with respect to the Deposited Securities, after Cooper Industries plc delivers or causes to be delivered to the qualifying intermediary the cash to be distributed. The agreement was initially entered into by Cooper
Table of Contents
Industries, Ltd. and BNYM on March 12, 2009; however, in connection with consummation of the Transaction, Cooper Industries, Ltd. will be assigning its rights under the agreement to Cooper Industries plc and Cooper Industries plc will be assuming Cooper Industries, Ltd.'s obligations under the agreement.
     Cooper Industries plc will rely on information received directly or indirectly from brokers and its transfer agent in determining where shareholders reside, whether they have provided the required U.S. tax information and whether they have provided the required Irish dividend withholding tax forms, as described below. Shareholders who are required to file Irish forms in order to receive their dividends free of DWT should note that such forms are valid for five years and new forms must be filed before the expiration of that period in order to continue to enable them to receive dividends without DWT. Links to the various Irish Revenue forms are available at .
http://www.revenue.ie/en/tax/dwt/forms/index.html
     The list of "relevant territories" as defined for the purposes of DWT is set forth below:
Shares Held by U.S. Resident Shareholders
     Dividends paid on Cooper Industries plc shares that are owned by residents of the U.S. and held beneficially will not be subject to DWT provided that the address of the beneficial owner of the shares in the records of the broker is in the U.S. Cooper Industries plc strongly
Table of Contents
recommends that such shareholders ensure that their information has been properly recorded by their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary).
     Dividends paid on Cooper Industries plc shares that are owned by residents of the U.S. and held directly will not be subject to DWT provided that the shareholder has provided a valid Form W-9 showing a U.S. address or a valid U.S. taxpayer identification number to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent. Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that shareholders who are residents of the U.S. and hold shares directly ensure that an appropriate Form W-9 or taxpayer identification number has been provided to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent. If you currently have amounts withheld from your dividend payments, we recommend that you contact our transfer agent to confirm whether a validly executed Form W-9 is on file.
     If any shareholder who is resident in the U.S. receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she should generally be able to make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
Shares Held by Residents of "Relevant Territories" Other Than the U.S.
     Shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. who held any Cooper Industries, Ltd. shares on January 1, 2009, generally will receive dividends in 2009 without any DWT. For shares held beneficially, dividends will be paid in 2009 without any DWT if the address of the relevant shareholder in his or her broker's records is in a "relevant territory" other than the U.S. Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that their information has been properly recorded by their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary). For shares held directly, dividends will be paid in 2009 without any DWT if the shareholder has provided a valid U.S. tax form showing an address in a "relevant territory" other than the U.S. to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent. Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that the appropriate tax form has been provided to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent.
     Shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. who acquired all their Cooper Industries, Ltd. shares after January 1, 2009 or who acquire all their Cooper Industries plc shares after consummation of the Transaction must complete the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax forms in order to receive their dividends without DWT. Such shareholders must provide the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax forms to their brokers at least 7 business days (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend payment to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that such shareholders complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible after acquiring their shares.
     In addition, all shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. (regardless of when such shareholders acquired their shares) must complete the appropriate Irish
Table of Contents
dividend withholding tax forms in order to receive their dividends in 2010 and later years without DWT. Such shareholders must provide the appropriate Irish forms to their brokers at least 7 business days (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend paid in 2010 (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that such shareholders complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible.
     If any shareholder who is resident in a "relevant territory" receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she may make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
     Please note that this exemption from DWT does not apply to a shareholder (other than a body corporate) that is resident or ordinarily resident in Ireland or to a body corporate that is under the control, whether directly or indirectly, of a person or persons who is or are resident in Ireland.
     However, it may be possible for such a shareholder to rely on a double tax treaty to limit the applicable DWT. Shareholders should consult their own tax advisor if they believe they may be subject to DWT.
Shares Held by Residents of Ireland
     Most Irish tax resident or ordinarily resident shareholders will be subject to DWT in respect of dividend payments on their Cooper Industries plc shares.
     Shareholders who are residents of Ireland but are entitled to receive dividends without DWT must complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers at least 7 business days (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Shareholders who are resident or ordinarily resident in Ireland or are otherwise subject to Irish tax should consult their own tax advisor.
Shares Held by Other Persons
     Cooper Industries plc shareholders who do not reside in "relevant territories" or in Ireland will be subject to DWT, but there are a number of other exemptions that could apply on a case-by-case basis. Dividends paid to such shareholders will be paid subject to DWT unless the relevant shareholder has provided the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax form to his or her broker at least 7 business days (so that such broker can further transmit the relevant information to Cooper Industries plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that such shareholders to whom an
Table of Contents
exemption applies complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Cooper Industries plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible.
     If any shareholder who is not a resident of a "relevant territory" or Ireland but is exempt from withholding receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she may make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
Income Tax on Dividends Paid on Cooper Industries plc Shares
     A shareholder who is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland and who is entitled to an exemption from DWT, generally has no liability for Irish income tax or the income and health levies on a dividend from Cooper Industries plc unless he or she holds his or her Cooper Industries plc shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on. Shareholders who are neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland and who are not entitled to an exemption from DWT generally have no additional Irish income tax liability or a liability to the income or health levy unless the shareholder holds Cooper Industries plc shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on. The DWT deducted by Cooper Industries plc discharges such liability to Irish income tax provided that the shareholder furnishes a statement of DWT imposed to the Irish Revenue.
     A shareholder who is a resident of a "relevant territory" or is otherwise exempt from DWT should be able to make a reclaim of the DWT from the Irish Revenue Commissioners unless the shareholder holds Cooper Industries plc shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on.
     Irish resident or ordinarily resident shareholders may be subject to Irish tax and/or levies on dividends received from Cooper Industries plc. Such shareholders should consult their own tax advisor.
Capital Acquisitions Tax
     Irish capital acquisitions tax ("CAT") comprises principally of gift tax and inheritance tax. CAT could apply to a gift or inheritance of Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because Cooper Industries plc ordinary shares are regarded as property situated in Ireland as the share register of Cooper Industries plc must be held in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.
     CAT is levied at a rate of 25 percent above certain tax-free thresholds. The appropriate tax-free threshold is dependent upon (1) the relationship between the donor and the donee and (2) the aggregation of the values of previous gifts and inheritances received by the donee from persons within the same group threshold. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT.
Stamp Duty
     When we refer in this discussion of stamp duty to shares held "beneficially" through "brokers," we are specifically referring to shares held beneficially through brokers who in turn
Table of Contents
hold those shares through DTC. Shareholders who hold shares beneficially through brokers who do not hold those shares through DTC should consult their own tax advisors.
     A transfer of Cooper Industries plc shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to Irish stamp duty.
     A transfer of Cooper Industries plc shares by a seller who holds shares directly to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher). Stamp duty is a liability of the buyer or transferee. A shareholder who holds Cooper Industries plc shares directly may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. In order to benefit from this exemption from stamp duty, the shareholder must confirm to Cooper Industries plc that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. A person wishing to acquire shares directly may need to purchase the shares through a broker account and then transfer such shares into his or her own name.
     Because of the potential Irish stamp duty on transfers of Cooper Industries plc shares, Cooper Industries plc strongly recommends that any person who wishes to acquire Cooper Industries plc shares acquire such shares beneficially through a broker.
     We currently intend to pay (or cause one of our subsidiaries to pay) stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases Cooper Industries plc may, in its absolute discretion, pay (or cause one of its subsidiaries to pay) any stamp duty. Cooper Industries plc's articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Cooper Industries plc (a) may seek reimbursement from the buyer or seller, at its discretion, (b) may set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the buyer or seller, at its discretion, of those shares and (c) may claim a first and permanent lien on the Cooper Industries plc shares on which stamp duty has been paid by Cooper Industries plc or its subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid. Cooper Industries plc's lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Cooper Industries plc shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by Cooper Industries plc.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     For the list of exhibits, see the Exhibit Index to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated into this Item 9.01 by reference.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Cooper Industries plc has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 9, 2009
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cert. No.: 471954
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.      The name of the Company is Cooper Industries public limited company.
 
2.      The Company is to be a public limited company.
 
3.      The objects for which the Company is established are:
 
(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objects set forth in any of this clause shall be regarded as independent objects and shall not, except, where the context expressly so requires, be in any way limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of any other or by the name of the Company. None of such or the objects therein specified or the powers thereby conferred shall be deemed subsidiary or auxiliary merely to the objects mentioned in the first of this clause, but the Company shall have full power to exercise all or any of the powers conferred by any part of this clause in any part of the world notwithstanding that the business, property or acts proposed to be transacted, acquired or performed do not fall within the objects of the first of this clause.
sub-clause
sub-clause,
sub-clauses
sub-clause
sub-clause
 
 
 
 
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, wish to be formed into a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set opposite our respective names.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHARE CAPITAL AND VARIATION OF RIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares may be subject to the terms of issue of any series or class of preferred shares allotted by the Directors from time to time in accordance with article 3(c).
 
 
 
which rights and restrictions may be as stated in such resolution or resolutions of the Directors as determined by them in accordance with this article 3(c). The Board may at any time before the allotment of any preferred share by further resolution in any way amend the designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions, or vary or revoke the designations of such preferred shares.
 
The rights conferred upon the Holder of any pre-existing shares in the share capital of the Company shall be deemed not to be varied by the creation, issue and allotment of preferred shares in accordance with this article 3.
 
(d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRANSFER OF SHARES
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRANSMISSION OF SHARES
 
 
ALTERATION OF CAPITAL
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL MEETINGS
 
 
 
 
 
NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS AT GENERAL MEETINGS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the Chairman that a resolution has, on a show of hands, been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, and an entry to that effect in the book containing the minutes of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against such resolution.
 
The demand for a poll may be withdrawn.
 
 
VOTES OF MEMBERS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS
 
 
BORROWING POWERS
 
 
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTORS
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
 
 
 
 
APPOINTMENT AND ROTATION OF DIRECTORS
 
 
PROCEEDINGS OF DIRECTORS
 
 
 
 
 
THE SEAL
 
 
 
DIVIDENDS AND RESERVES
 
 
 
 
ACCOUNTS
 
 
 
Books of account shall be kept on a continuous and consistent basis and entries therein shall be made in a timely manner and be consistent from year to year. Proper books of account shall not be deemed to be kept if there are not kept such books of account as are necessary to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs and to explain its transactions.
 
The Company may send by post, electronic mail or any other means of electronic communication a summary financial statement to its members or persons nominated by any member. The Company may meet, but shall be under no obligation to meet, any request from any of its members to be sent additional copies of its full report and accounts or summary financial statement or other communications with its members.
 
 
CAPITALISATION OF PROFITS
 
 
 
AUDIT
 
 
NOTICES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WINDING UP
 
 
 
 
 
INDEMNITY
 
 
 
 
 
DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
104. The Company may destroy:
 
 
 
 
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
 
BUSINESS COMBINATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)        The term "Business Combination" means:
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Number 471594
I hereby certify that
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
is this day incorporated under the Companies Acts 1963 to 2006, and that the company is limited.
Given under my hand at Dublin, this
Thursday, the 4th day of June, 2009
/s/ Pat Daly for Registrar of Companies
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
     SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), executed as a Deed Poll, dated as of September 8, 2009, amending and restating the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated August 3, 2007 (the "Old Agreement"), by and among Cooper Industries plc, a company incorporated in Ireland under registered number 471954 (the "Company"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Bermuda"), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the issuance of its Ordinary Shares (as hereinafter defined) in conjunction with the Scheme of Arrangement under section 99 of the Bermuda Companies Act 1981 between Cooper Bermuda and the holders of its Class A Common Shares, sanctioned by the Supreme Court of Bermuda on September 4, 2009, pursuant to which the Class A Common Shares (other than those held by subsidiaries of Cooper Bermuda) will be cancelled and the former holders thereof will receive Ordinary Shares of the Company on a one-for-one basis in respect of such cancelled Class A Common Shares (the "Scheme"); and
     WHEREAS, the Class A Common Shares of Cooper Bermuda that will be cancelled in the Scheme have certain rights attached (the "Old Rights") and the Board of Directors of the Company desires to replace such Old Rights with rights attached to the Ordinary Shares of the Company, so that the Persons (as hereinafter defined) who hold Ordinary Shares will have substantially the same rights before and after the Scheme; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the above, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the issuance of one Right for each Ordinary Share outstanding at the Record Time (as hereinafter defined) and authorized the issuance of one Right (as such number may hereafter be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(p) hereof) for each Ordinary Share issued between the Record Time and the Distribution Date (as hereinafter defined), each Right initially representing the right to purchase one one-hundredth of a Series A Participating Preferred Share, par value US$.01 per share, of the Company, having the rights, powers and preferences set forth in the Resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company attached hereto as Exhibit A, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth (the "Rights"); and
     WHEREAS, in order to set forth the terms of the Old Rights, Cooper Bermuda and the Rights Agent executed and entered into the Old Agreement; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Old Agreement, Cooper Bermuda and the Rights Agent may from time to time supplement or amend the Old Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 thereof; and
     WHEREAS, all acts and things necessary to make this Agreement a valid agreement, enforceable according to its terms, have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, Cooper Bermuda and the Rights Agent have been in all respects duly authorized by the Company, Cooper Bermuda and the Rights Agent.
 
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          Section 1. . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
Certain Definitions
          (a) "Acquiring Person" shall mean any Person who or which, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares then outstanding, but shall not include the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan, or any Person who becomes an Acquiring Person solely as a result of a reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares outstanding due to the repurchase of Ordinary Shares by the Company, unless and until such Person shall purchase or otherwise become the Beneficial Owner of additional Ordinary Shares constituting 1% or more of the then outstanding Ordinary Shares.
          (b) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on the date of this Agreement (the "Exchange Act").
          (c) "Articles" shall mean the articles of association of the Company from time to time;
          (d) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, and shall be deemed to "beneficially own," any securities:
          (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; , however, that a Person shall not be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," (A) securities tendered pursuant to a tender, exchange or takeover offer made by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such securities are accepted for purchase or exchange, or (B) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights at any time prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event, or (C) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights from and after the occurrence of a Triggering Event which Rights were acquired by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates prior to the Distribution Date or pursuant to Section 3(a) or Section 22 hereof (the "Original Rights") or pursuant to Section 11(i) hereof in connection with an adjustment made with respect to any Original Rights;
provided
          (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial ownership" of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement
 
or understanding, whether or not in writing; , however, that a Person shall not be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any security under this subparagraph (ii) as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security if such agreement, arrangement or understanding: (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy given in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, and (B) is not also then reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or
provided
     (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (d)) or disposing of any voting securities of the Company; , however, that nothing in this paragraph (d) shall cause a Person engaged in the business as an underwriter of securities to be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any securities acquired through such Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition.
provided
          (e) "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
          (f) "Close of business" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York, New York time, on such date; provided, however, that if such date is not a Business Day it shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York, New York time, on the next succeeding Business Day.
          (g) "Continuing Director" shall mean (i) any member of the Board of Directors of the Company, while such Person is a member of the Board, who is not an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, or a representative of an Acquiring Person or of any such Affiliate or Associate, and was a member of the Board on the Effective Date (as defined in the Scheme), or (ii) any Person who subsequently becomes a member of the Board, while such Person is a member of the Board, who is not an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, or a representative of an Acquiring Person or of any such Affiliate or Associate, if such Person's nomination for election or election to the Board is recommended or approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors.
          (h) "Ordinary Shares" shall mean the ordinary shares, par value US$.01 per share, of the Company, except that "Ordinary Shares" when used with reference to any Person other than the Company shall mean the capital stock of such Person with the greatest voting power, or the equity securities or other equity interest having power to control or direct the management, of such Person.
          (i) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity.
 
          (j) "Preferred Shares" shall mean Series A Participating Preferred Shares, par value US$.01 per share, of the Company and, to the extent that there are not a sufficient number of Series A Participating Preferred Shares authorized to permit the full exercise of the Rights, any other series of preferred shares of the Company designated for such purpose containing terms substantially similar to the terms of the Series A Participating Preferred Shares.
          (k) "Record Time" shall mean immediately after the Transaction Time (as defined in the Scheme).
          (l) "Section 11(a)(ii) Event" shall mean the event described in Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.
          (m) "Section 13 Event" shall mean any event described in clauses (x), (y) or (z) of Section 13(a) hereof.
          (n) "Stock Acquisition Date" shall mean the first date of public announcement (which, for purposes of this definition, shall include, without limitation, a report filed pursuant to Section 13(d) under the Exchange Act) by the Company or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such.
          (o) "Subsidiary" shall mean, with reference to any Person, any corporation of which an amount of voting securities sufficient to elect at least a majority of the directors of such corporation is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person, or otherwise controlled by such Person.
          (p) "Trading Day" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d)(i) hereof.
          (q) "Triggering Event" shall mean the Section 11(a)(ii) Event or any Section 13 Event.
     Section 2. . The Company hereby appoints the Rights Agent to act as agent for the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The Company may from time to time appoint such Co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or desirable upon ten (10) days prior written notice to the Rights Agent. The Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and shall in no event be liable for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent.
Appointment of Rights Agent
     Section 3. .
Issue of Rights and Rights Certificates
          (a) Until the earlier of (i) the close of business on the tenth Business Day after the Stock Acquisition Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth Business Day (or such later date as the Board of Directors shall determine) after the date that a tender, exchange or takeover offer by any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) is first published or sent or given within the meaning of Rule 14d-2(a) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, if upon consummation thereof, such Person would be
 
the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares then outstanding (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the "Distribution Date"), (x) the Rights will be evidenced (subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 3) by the certificates for the Ordinary Shares registered in the names of the holders of the Ordinary Shares (which certificates for Ordinary Shares shall be deemed also to be certificates for Rights) and not by separate certificates, and (y) the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the underlying Ordinary Shares (including a transfer to the Company). As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will send by first-class, insured, postage prepaid mail, to each record holder of Ordinary Shares as of the close of business on the Distribution Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company, one or more right certificates, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto (the "Rights Certificates"), evidencing one Right for each Ordinary Share so held, subject to adjustment as provided herein. In the event that an adjustment in the number of Rights per Ordinary Share has been made pursuant to Section 11(p) hereof, at the time of distribution of the Rights Certificates, the Company shall make the necessary and appropriate rounding adjustments (in accordance with Section 14(a) hereof) so that Rights Certificates representing only whole numbers of Rights are distributed and cash is paid in lieu of any fractional Rights. As of and after the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced solely by such Rights Certificates. Nothing in this Agreement shall require the issuance of certificates for Ordinary Shares of the Company. References in this Agreement to certificates for Ordinary Shares or any other securities shall be deemed to include, in the case of any such Ordinary Shares or other securities that may be held in uncertificated form, book-entry interests in respect thereof on the records of the transfer agent therefor.
          (b) One Right shall be and hereby is granted and issued in respect of each Ordinary Share which is outstanding at the Record Time, and one Right (as such number may hereafter be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(p) hereof) shall be and hereby is granted and issued in respect of each Ordinary Share which is issued after the Record Time but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date; certificates representing such Ordinary Shares shall also be deemed to be certificates for Rights. Certificates representing Ordinary Shares shall bear the following legend if issued after the Record Time but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date:
     "This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as set forth in the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement"), by and among Cooper Industries plc, Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent, the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal administrative offices of Cooper Industries plc. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. Cooper Industries plc will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of mailing, without charge promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as
 
such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become null and void."
With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, until the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date or (ii) the Expiration Date, the Rights associated with the Ordinary Shares represented by such certificates shall be evidenced by such certificates alone and registered holders of Ordinary Shares shall also be the registered holders of the associated Rights, and the transfer of any of such certificates shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Ordinary Shares represented by such certificates.
     Section 4. .
Form of Rights Certificates
          (a) The Rights Certificates (and the forms of election to purchase and of assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof) shall each be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto and may have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries or endorsements printed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Rights may from time to time be listed, or to conform to usage. Subject to the provisions of Section 11 and Section 22 hereof, the Rights Certificates, whenever distributed, shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase such number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as shall be set forth therein at the price set forth therein (such exercise price per one one-hundredth of a share, the "Purchase Price"), but the amount and type of securities purchasable upon the exercise of each Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment as provided herein.
          (b) Any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 3(a) or Section 22 hereof that represents Rights beneficially owned by: (i) an Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person with whom such Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Company has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has as a primary purpose or effect avoidance of Section 7(e) hereof, and any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 6 or Section 11 hereof upon transfer, exchange, replacement or adjustment of any other Rights Certificate referred to in this sentence, shall contain (to the extent feasible) the following legend:
     "The Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are or were beneficially owned by a Person who was or became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement). Accordingly, this Rights Certificate and the Rights represented hereby may become null and void in the circumstances specified in Section 7(e) of such Agreement."
 
     Section 5. .
Countersignature and Registration
          (a) The Rights Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or any Vice President, either manually or by facsimile signature, and shall have affixed thereto the Company's seal or a facsimile thereof which shall be attested by the Secretary of the Company, either manually or by facsimile signature. The Rights Certificates shall be countersigned by the Rights Agent, either manually or by facsimile signature, and shall not be valid for any purpose unless so countersigned. In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed any of the Rights Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and delivery by the Company, such Rights Certificates, nevertheless, may be countersigned by the Rights Agent and issued and delivered by the Company with the same force and effect as though the person who signed such Rights Certificates had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Rights Certificates may be signed on behalf of the Company by any person who, at the actual date of the execution of such Rights Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Company to sign such Rights Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Agreement any such person was not such an officer.
          (b) Following the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office or offices designated as the appropriate place for surrender of Rights Certificates upon exercise or transfer, books for registration and transfer of the Rights Certificates issued hereunder. Such books shall show the names and addresses of the respective holders of the Rights Certificates, the number of Rights evidenced on its face by each of the Rights Certificates and the date of each of the Rights Certificates.
     Section 6. .
Transfer, Split Up, Consolidation and Exchange of Rights Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Rights Certificates
          (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b), Section 7(e) and Section 14 hereof, at any time after the close of business on the Distribution Date, and at or prior to the close of business on the Expiration Date, any Rights Certificate or Certificates may be transferred, split up, consolidated or exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Certificates, entitling the registered holder to purchase a like number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or, following a Triggering Event, Ordinary Shares, other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as the Rights Certificate or Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder (or former holder in the case of a transfer) to purchase. Any registered holder desiring to transfer, split up, consolidate or exchange any Rights Certificate or Certificates shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall surrender the Rights Certificate or Certificates to be transferred, split up, consolidated or exchanged at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose. Neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to take any action whatsoever with respect to the transfer of any such surrendered Rights Certificate until the registered holder shall have completed and signed the certificate contained in the form of assignment on the reverse side of such Rights Certificate and shall have provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Company shall reasonably request. Thereupon the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 4(b), Section 7(e) and Section 14 hereof,
 
countersign and deliver to the Person entitled thereto a Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates, as the case may be, as so requested. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer, split up, consolidation or exchange of Rights Certificates.
          (b) Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of a Rights Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to them, and reimbursement to the Company and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of the Rights Certificate if mutilated, the Company will execute and deliver a new Rights Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for countersignature and delivery to the registered owner in lieu of the Rights Certificate so lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated.
     Section 7. .
Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights
          (a) Subject to Section 7(e) hereof, the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including, without limitation, the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c) and Section 11(a)(iii) hereof) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, at or prior to the earlier of (i) the close of business on August 1, 2017 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof or (iii) the time at which the Rights are exchanged for Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares as provided in Section 24 hereof (the earlier of (i), (ii) and (iii) being herein referred to as the "Expiration Date").
          (b) The Purchase Price for each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall initially be US$600, and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 and 13(a) hereof and shall be payable in accordance with paragraph (c) below.
          (c) Upon receipt of a Rights Certificate representing exercisable Rights, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate duly executed, accompanied by payment, with respect to each Right so exercised, of the Purchase Price per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) to be purchased as set forth below and an amount equal to any applicable transfer tax, the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 20(k) hereof, thereupon promptly (i) (A) requisition from any transfer agent of the Preferred Shares (or make available, if the Rights Agent is the transfer agent for such shares) certificates for the total number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share to be purchased and the Company hereby irrevocably authorizes its transfer agent to comply with all such requests, or (B) if the Company shall have elected to deposit the total number of Preferred Shares issuable upon exercise of the Rights hereunder with a depositary agent, requisition from the depositary
 
agent depositary receipts representing such number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as are to be purchased (in which case certificates for the Preferred Shares represented by such receipts shall be deposited by the transfer agent with the depositary agent) and the Company will direct the depositary agent to comply with such request, (ii) requisition from the Company the amount of cash, if any, to be paid in lieu of fractional shares in accordance with Section 14 hereof, (iii) after receipt of such certificates or depositary receipts, cause the same to be delivered to, or upon the order of, the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder, and (iv) after receipt thereof, deliver such cash, if any, to, or upon the order of, the registered holder of such Rights Certificate. The payment of the Purchase Price (as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) or 11(q) hereof) may be made (x) in cash or by certified bank check or bank draft payable to the order of the Company, or (y) by delivery of a certificate or certificates (with appropriate stock powers executed in blank attached thereto) evidencing a number of Ordinary Shares equal to the then Purchase Price divided by the closing price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Ordinary Share on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of such exercise. In the event that the Company is obligated to issue other securities (including Ordinary Shares) of the Company, pay cash and/or distribute other property pursuant to Section 11(a) or 11(q) hereof, the Company will make all arrangements necessary so that such other securities, cash and/or other property are available for distribution by the Rights Agent, if and when appropriate. The Company reserves the right to require (i) prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole Preferred Shares would be issued and (ii) the payment in cash of the nominal value of any Preferred Shares, Ordinary Shares or other securities issuable hereunder as a condition to the issuance thereof.
          (d) In case the registered holder of any Rights Certificate shall exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Rights Certificate evidencing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised shall be issued by the Rights Agent and delivered to, or upon the order of, the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder, subject to the provisions of Section 14 hereof.
          (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, from and after the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event, any Rights beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person with whom the Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Company has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of this Section 7(e), shall become null and void without any further action, and no holder of such Rights shall have any rights whatsoever with respect to such Rights, whether under any provision of this Agreement or otherwise. The Company shall use all reasonable endeavours to insure that the provisions of this Section 7(e) and Section 4(b) hereof are complied with, but shall have no liability to any holder
 
of Rights Certificates or other Person as a result of its failure to make any determinations with respect to an Acquiring Person or its Affiliates, Associates or transferees hereunder.
          (f) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to undertake any action with respect to a registered holder upon the occurrence of any purported exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such registered holder shall have (i) completed and signed the certificate contained in the form of election to purchase set forth on the reverse side of the Rights Certificate surrendered for such exercise, and (ii) provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Company shall reasonably request.
     Section 8. . All Rights Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split up, consolidation or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or any of its agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in cancelled form, or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by it, and no Rights Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall deliver to the Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so cancel and retire, any other Rights Certificate purchased or acquired by the Company otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver all cancelled Rights Certificates to the Company, or shall, at the written request of the Company, destroy such cancelled Rights Certificates, and in such case shall deliver a certificate of destruction thereof to the Company.
Cancellation and Destruction of Rights Certificates
     Section 9. .
Reservation and Availability of Capital Stock
          (a) The Company covenants and agrees that it will use all reasonable endeavours to keep reserved and available out of its authorized and unissued Preferred Shares (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, out of its authorized and unissued Ordinary Shares and/or other securities), the number of Preferred Shares (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Ordinary Shares and/or other securities) that, as provided in this Agreement including Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights.
          (b) So long as the Preferred Shares (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Ordinary Shares and/or other securities) issuable and deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights may be listed on any national securities exchange, the Company shall use all reasonable endeavours to cause, from and after such time as the Rights become exercisable, all shares reserved for such issuance to be listed on such exchange upon official notice of issuance upon such exercise.
          (c) The Company shall use all reasonable endeavours (i) to file, as soon as practicable following the earliest date after the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event on which the consideration to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of the Rights has been determined in accordance with Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, or as soon as is required by law following the Distribution Date, as the case may be, a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") and any other prospectus as may be required under applicable law, with
 
respect to the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, (ii) to cause such registration statement to become effective as soon as practicable after such filing, and (iii) to cause such registration statement to remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the earlier of (A) the date as of which the Rights are no longer exercisable for such securities, and (B) the date of the expiration of the Rights. The Company will also take such action as may be appropriate under, or to ensure compliance with, the securities or "blue sky" laws of the various states in connection with the exercisability of the Rights. The Company may temporarily suspend, for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days after the date set forth in clause (i) of the first sentence of this Section 9(c), the exercisability of the Rights in order to prepare and file such registration statement or prospectus and permit it to become effective. Upon any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension is no longer in effect. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable in any jurisdiction if the requisite qualification in such jurisdiction shall not have been obtained, the exercise thereof shall not be permitted under applicable law or a registration statement shall not have been declared effective.
          (d) The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all such action as may be necessary to ensure that all one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Ordinary Shares and/or other securities) delivered upon exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates for such shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid and nonassessable.
          (e) The Company further covenants and agrees that it will, or will procure that a subsidiary of the Company shall, pay when due and payable any and all federal and state transfer taxes and charges which may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Rights Certificates and of any certificates for a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) upon the exercise of Rights. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any transfer tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer or delivery of Rights Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or delivery of a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) in respect of a name other than that of, the registered holder of the Rights Certificates evidencing Rights surrendered for exercise or to issue or deliver any certificates for a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) in a name other than that of the registered holder upon the exercise of any Rights until such tax shall have been paid (any such tax being payable by the holder of such Rights Certificate at the time of surrender) or until it has been established to the Company's satisfaction that no such tax is due.
     Section 10. . Each person in whose name any certificate for a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the holder of record of such Preferred Shares (fractional or otherwise) (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) represented thereby on, and such
Preferred Shares Record Date
 
certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Rights Certificate evidencing such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price (and all applicable transfer taxes) was made; , however, that if the date of such surrender and payment is a date upon which the Preferred Shares (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Company are closed, such Person shall be deemed to have become the record holder of such shares (fractional or otherwise) on, and such certificate shall be dated, the next succeeding Business Day on which the Preferred Shares (or Ordinary Shares and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Company are open. Prior to the exercise of the Rights evidenced thereby, the holder of a Rights Certificate shall not be entitled to any rights of a shareholder of the Company with respect to shares for which the Rights shall be exercisable, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Company, except as provided herein.
provided
     Section 11. . The Purchase Price, the number and kind of shares covered by each Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 11.
Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number and Kind of Shares or Number of Rights
     (a)(i) In the event the Company shall at any time after the date of this Agreement (A) declare a dividend on the Preferred Shares payable in Preferred Shares, (B) subdivide the outstanding Preferred Shares, (C) consolidate the outstanding Preferred Shares into a smaller number of shares, or (D) issue any shares of its capital stock in a reclassification of the Preferred Shares (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), except as otherwise provided in this Section 11(a) and Section 7(e) hereof, the Purchase Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision, consolidation or reclassification, and the number and kind of Preferred Shares or capital stock, as the case may be, issuable on such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive, upon payment of the Purchase Price then in effect, the aggregate number and kind of Preferred Shares or capital stock, as the case may be, which, if such Right had been exercised immediately prior to such date and at a time when the Preferred Share transfer books of the Company were open, he would have owned upon such exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision, consolidation or reclassification. If an event occurs which would require an adjustment under both this Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, the adjustment provided for in this Section 11(a)(i) shall be in addition to, and shall be made prior to, any adjustment required pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.
     (ii) In the event any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, unless the event causing the 15% threshold to be crossed is a transaction set forth in Section 13(a) hereof, or is an acquisition of Ordinary Shares pursuant to a tender, exchange or takeover offer for all outstanding Ordinary Shares at a price and on terms determined by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Continuing Directors,
 
to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders (a "Qualifying Offer"), then, promptly following the occurrence of such event, proper provision shall be made so that each holder of a Right (except as provided below and in Section 7(e) hereof) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of a number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share, such number of Ordinary Shares of the Company as shall equal the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the then number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event, and (y) dividing that product (which, following such occurrence, shall thereafter be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement) by 50% of the current market price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Ordinary Share on the date of such occurrence (such number of shares, the "Adjustment Shares").
     (iii) In the event that the number of Ordinary Shares which are authorized by the Company's Memorandum of Association but not outstanding or reserved for issuance for purposes other than upon exercise of the Rights are not sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with the foregoing subparagraph (ii) of this Section 11(a), the Company shall: (A) determine the excess of (1) the value of the Adjustment Shares issuable upon the exercise of a Right (the "Current Value") over (2) the Purchase Price (such excess, the "Spread"), and (B) with respect to each Right (subject to Section 7(e) hereof), make adequate provision to substitute for the Adjustment Shares, upon the exercise of such Right and payment of the applicable Purchase Price, (1) cash, (2) a reduction in the Purchase Price, (3) Ordinary Shares or other equity securities of the Company (including, without limitation, preferred shares or units of preferred shares which the Board of Directors of the Company has deemed to have the same value as Ordinary Shares (such preferred shares, "common share equivalents")), (4) debt securities of the Company, (5) other assets, or (6) any combination of the foregoing, having an aggregate value equal to the Current Value, where such aggregate value has been determined by the Board of Directors of the Company based upon the advice of an internationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Board of Directors of the Company; , however, if the Company shall not have made adequate provision to deliver value pursuant to clause (B) above within thirty (30) days following the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event (being referred to herein as the "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date"), then the Company shall be obligated to deliver, upon the surrender for exercise of a Right and without requiring payment of the Purchase Price, Ordinary Shares (to the extent available) and then, if necessary, cash, which shares and/or cash have an aggregate value equal to the Spread. If the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine in good faith that it is likely that sufficient additional Ordinary Shares could be authorized for issuance upon exercise in full of the Rights, the thirty (30) day period set forth above may be extended to the extent necessary, but not more than ninety (90) days after the
provided
 
Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date, in order that the Company may seek shareholder approval for the authorization of such additional shares (such period, as it may be extended, the "Substitution Period"). To the extent that the Company determines that some action need be taken pursuant to the first and/or second sentences of this Section 11(a)(iii), the Company (x) shall provide, subject to Section 7(e) hereof, that such action shall apply uniformly to all outstanding Rights, and (y) may suspend the exercisability of the Rights until the expiration of the Substitution Period in order to seek any authorization of additional shares and/or to decide the appropriate form of distribution to be made pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the value thereof. In the event of any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension is no longer in effect. For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii), the value of each Adjustment Share shall be the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Ordinary Share on the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date and the per share or per unit value of any "common share equivalent" shall be deemed to be equal to the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) of the Ordinary Shares on such date.
          (b) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the issuance of rights, options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Shares entitling them to subscribe for or purchase (for a period expiring within forty-five (45) calendar days after such record date) Preferred Shares (or shares having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the Preferred Shares ("equivalent preferred shares")) or securities convertible into Preferred Shares or equivalent preferred shares at a price per Preferred Share or per equivalent preferred share (or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into Preferred Shares or equivalent preferred shares) less than the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Preferred Share on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date, plus the number of Preferred Shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of Preferred Shares and/or equivalent preferred shares so to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase at such current market price, and the denominator of which shall be the number of Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date, plus the number of additional Preferred Shares and/or equivalent preferred shares to be offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be offered are initially convertible). In case such subscription price may be paid by delivery of consideration part or all of which may be in a form other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights. Preferred Shares owned by or held for the account of the Company shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such computation. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
 
          (c) In case the Company shall fix a record date for a distribution to all holders of Preferred Shares (including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement in which the Company is the continuing corporation) of evidences of indebtedness, cash (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of the earnings or retained earnings of the Company), assets (other than a dividend payable in Preferred Shares, but including any dividend payable in shares other than Preferred Shares) or subscription rights or warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b) hereof), the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Preferred Share on such record date, less the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent) of the portion of the cash, assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to a Preferred Share and the denominator of which shall be such current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per Preferred Share. Such adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would have been in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
     (d)(i) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, other than computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the "current market price" per Ordinary Share on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Ordinary Shares for the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days (as such term is hereinafter defined) immediately prior to such date, and for purposes of computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the "current market price" per Ordinary Share on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Ordinary Shares for the ten (10) consecutive Trading Days immediately following such date; , however, that in the event that the current market price per Ordinary Share is determined during a period following the announcement by the issuer of such Ordinary Shares of (A) a dividend or distribution on such Ordinary Shares payable in Ordinary Shares or securities convertible into such Ordinary Shares (other than the Rights), or (B) any subdivision, consolidation or reclassification of such Ordinary Shares, and the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution or the record date for such subdivision, consolidation or reclassification shall not have occurred prior to the commencement of the requisite thirty (30) Trading Day or ten (10) Trading Day period, as set forth above, then, and in each such case, the "current market price" shall be properly adjusted to take into account ex-dividend trading. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Ordinary Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national
provided
 
securities exchange on which the Ordinary Shares are listed or admitted to trading or, if the Ordinary Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the Ordinary Shares are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Ordinary Shares selected by the Board of Directors of the Company. If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the Ordinary Shares, the fair value of such shares on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be used. The term "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Ordinary Shares are listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the Ordinary Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, a Business Day. If the Ordinary Shares are not publicly held or not so listed or traded, "current market price" per share shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes.
     (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the "current market price" and closing price per Preferred Share shall be determined in the same manner as set forth above for the Ordinary Shares in clause (i) of this Section 11(d) (other than the last sentence thereof). If the current market price or closing price per Preferred Share cannot be determined in the manner provided above or if the Preferred Shares are not publicly held or listed or traded in a manner described in clause (i) of this Section 11(d), the "current market price" or closing price, as applicable, per Preferred Share shall be conclusively deemed to be an amount equal to 100 (as such number may be appropriately adjusted for such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Ordinary Shares occurring after the date of this Agreement) multiplied by the current market price or closing price, as applicable, per Ordinary Share. If neither the Ordinary Shares nor the Preferred Shares are publicly held or so listed or traded, "current market price" or closing price per Preferred Share shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes. For all purposes of this Agreement, the "current market price" or closing price of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share shall be equal to the "current market price" or closing price, as applicable, of one Preferred Share divided by 100.
          (e) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the Purchase Price; , however, that any adjustments which by reason of this Section 11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken
provided
 
into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest ten-thousandth of an Ordinary Share or other share or one-millionth of a Preferred Share, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 11(e), any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than the earlier of (i) three (3) years from the date of the transaction which mandates such adjustment, or (ii) the Expiration Date.
          (f) If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii), Section 11(q) or Section 13(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter exercised shall become entitled to receive any shares of capital stock other than Preferred Shares, thereafter the number of such other shares so receivable upon exercise of any Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to the Preferred Shares contained in Sections 11(a), (b), (c), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m), and the provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14 hereof with respect to the Preferred Shares shall apply on like terms to any such other shares.
          (g) All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to any adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise of the Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein.
          (h) Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as provided in Section 11(i) or 11(q), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c), each Right outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (calculated to the nearest one-millionth) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number of one one-hundredths of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to this adjustment, by (y) the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase Price, and (ii) dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase Price.
          (i) The Company may elect on or after the date of any adjustment of the Purchase Price to adjust the number of Rights, in lieu of any adjustment in the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share purchasable upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after the adjustment in the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such adjustment. Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of the number of Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the nearest one ten-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price. The Company shall make a public announcement of its election to adjust the number of Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the time, the amount of the adjustment to be made. This record date may be the date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if the Rights Certificates have been issued, shall be at least ten (10) days later than the date of the public announcement. If Rights Certificates have been issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 11(i), the Company shall,
 
as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed to holders of record of Rights Certificates on such record date Rights Certificates evidencing, subject to Section 14 hereof, the additional Rights to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, at the option of the Company, shall cause to be distributed to such holders of record in substitution and replacement for the Rights Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if required by the Company, new Rights Certificates evidencing all the Rights to which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Rights Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed and countersigned in the manner provided for herein (and may bear, at the option of the Company, the adjusted Purchase Price) and shall be registered in the names of the holders of record of Rights Certificates on the record date specified in the public announcement.
          (j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price or the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share issuable upon the exercise of the Rights, the Rights Certificates theretofore and thereafter issued may continue to express the Purchase Price per one one-hundredth of a share and the number of one one-hundredths of a share which were expressed in the initial Rights Certificates issued hereunder.
          (k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing the Purchase Price below the then nominal value, if any, of the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Company shall take any corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable such number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share at such adjusted Purchase Price.
          (l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a specified event, the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of such event the issuance to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment; , however, that the Company shall deliver to such holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right to receive such additional shares (fractional or otherwise) or securities upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
provided
          (m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to the extent that in their good faith judgment the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine to be advisable in order that any (i) consolidation or subdivision of the Preferred Shares, (ii) issuance wholly for cash of any Preferred Shares at less than the current market price, (iii) issuance wholly for cash of Preferred Shares or securities which by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for Preferred Shares, (iv) stock dividends, or (v) issuance of rights, options or warrants referred to in this
 
Section 11, hereafter made by the Company to holders of its Preferred Shares shall not be taxable to such shareholders.
          (n) The Company covenants and agrees that it shall not, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) consolidate with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), (ii) merge with or into or enter into a scheme of arrangement with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or (iii) sell or transfer (or permit any Subsidiary to sell or transfer), in one transaction, or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), if (x) at the time of or immediately after such consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement or sale there are any rights, warrants or other instruments or securities outstanding or agreements in effect which would substantially diminish or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights or (y) prior to, simultaneously with or immediately after such consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement or sale, the shareholders of the Person who constitutes, or would constitute, the "Principal Party" for purposes of Section 13(a) hereof shall have received a distribution of Rights previously owned by such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates.
          (o) The Company covenants and agrees that, after the Distribution Date, it will not, except as permitted by Section 11(q), Section 23, Section 24 or Section 27 hereof, take (or permit any Subsidiary to take) any action if at the time such action is taken it is reasonably foreseeable that such action will diminish substantially or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights.
          (p) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that the Company shall at any time after the Record Time and prior to the Distribution Date (i) declare a dividend on the outstanding Ordinary Shares payable in Ordinary Shares, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Ordinary Shares, or (iii) consolidate the outstanding Ordinary Shares into a smaller number of shares, the number of Rights associated with each Ordinary Share then outstanding, or issued or delivered thereafter but prior to the Distribution Date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the number of Rights thereafter associated with each Ordinary Share following any such event shall equal the result obtained by multiplying the number of Rights associated with each Ordinary Share immediately prior to such event by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the total number of Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of the event and the denominator of which shall be the total number of Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately following the occurrence of such event.
          (q) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at any time that it is permitted to effect an exchange of Rights for Ordinary Shares pursuant to Section 24, elect to adjust the terms of the Rights such that each holder of a Right (except as provided in Section 7(e) and Section 24 hereof) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of any other securities, a number of Ordinary Shares per Right equal to the Exchange Ratio (as hereinafter defined) at a price per
 
Ordinary Share equal to the nominal value thereof (which, following such election, shall thereafter be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement).
     Section 12. . Whenever an adjustment is made as provided in Section 11 and Section 13 hereof, the Company shall (a) promptly prepare a certificate setting forth such adjustment and a brief statement of the facts accounting for such adjustment, (b) promptly file with the Rights Agent, and with each transfer agent for the Preferred Shares and the Ordinary Shares, a copy of such certificate, and (c) mail or cause the Rights Agent to mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a Rights Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to each holder of a certificate representing Ordinary Shares) in accordance with Section 27 hereof. The Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any such certificate and on any adjustment therein contained.
Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares
     Section 13. .
Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or Earning Power
          (a) In the event that, following the Stock Acquisition Date, directly or indirectly, (x) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge with and into, or enter into any scheme of arrangement with, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), and the Company shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement, (y) any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof) shall consolidate with, or merge with or into, or enter into any scheme of arrangement with, the Company, and the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement and, in connection with such consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement, all or part of the outstanding Ordinary Shares shall be changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or cash or any other property, or (z) the Company shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any Person or Persons (other than the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), then, and in each such case (except as may be contemplated by Section 13(d) hereof), proper provision shall be made so that: (i) each holder of a Right, except as provided in Section 7(e) hereof, shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such number of validly authorized and issued, fully paid, nonassessable and freely tradeable Ordinary Shares of the Principal Party (as such term is hereinafter defined), not subject to any liens, encumbrances, rights of first refusal or other adverse claims, as shall be equal to the result obtained by (1) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event (or, if the Section 11(a)(ii) Event has occurred prior to the occurrence of a Section 13 Event, multiplying the number of such one one-hundredths of a share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event by the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such first occurrence), and dividing that product (which, following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, shall be referred to as
 
the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement) by (2) 50% of the current market price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) per Ordinary Share of such Principal Party on the date of consummation of such Section 13 Event; (ii) such Principal Party shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of such Section 13 Event, all the obligations and duties of the Company pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) the term "Company" shall thereafter be deemed to refer to such Principal Party, it being specifically intended that the provisions of Section 11 hereof shall apply only to such Principal Party following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event; (iv) such Principal Party shall take such steps (including, but not limited to, the reservation of a sufficient number of its Ordinary Shares) in connection with the consummation of any such transaction as may be necessary to assure that the provisions hereof shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to its Ordinary Shares thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights; and (v) the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall be of no effect following the first occurrence of any Section 13 Event.
          (b) "Principal Party" shall mean:
          (i) in the case of any transaction described in clause (x) or (y) of the first sentence of Section 13(a), the Person that is the issuer of any securities into which Ordinary Shares of the Company are converted in such merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement, and if no securities are so issued, the Person that is the other party to such merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement; and
          (ii) in the case of any transaction described in clause (z) of the first sentence of Section 13(a), the Person that is the party receiving the greatest portion of the assets or earning power transferred pursuant to such transaction or transactions;
, however, that in any such case, (1) if the Ordinary Shares of such Person are not at such time and have not been continuously over the preceding twelve (12) month period registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and such Person is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of another Person the Ordinary Shares of which are and have been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to such other Person; and (2) in case such Person is a Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of more than one Person, the Ordinary Shares of two or more of which are and have been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to whichever of such Persons is the issuer of the Ordinary Shares having the greatest aggregate market value.
provided
          (c) The Company shall not consummate any such consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement, sale or transfer unless the Principal Party shall have a sufficient number of authorized Ordinary Shares which have not been issued or reserved for issuance to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with this Section 13 and unless prior thereto the Company and such Principal Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental agreement providing for the terms set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 13 and further providing that, as soon as practicable after the date of any consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement or sale of assets mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Section 13, the Principal Party will:
 
          (i) prepare and file a registration statement under the Act, and, if required under applicable law, any prospectus, with respect to the Rights and the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, and will use its reasonable endeavours to cause such registration statement to (A) become effective as soon as practicable after such filing and (B) remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the Expiration Date; and
          (ii) will deliver to holders of the Rights historical financial statements for the Principal Party and each of its Affiliates which comply in all respects with the requirements for registration on Form 10 under the Exchange Act.
The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive mergers, consolidations, schemes of arrangement or sales or other transfers. In the event that a Section 13 Event shall occur at any time after the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event, the Rights which have not theretofore been exercised shall thereafter become exercisable in the manner described in Section 13(a).
          (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Section 13 shall not be applicable to a transaction described in subparagraphs (x) and (y) of Section 13(a) if (i) such transaction is consummated with a Person or Persons who acquired Ordinary Shares pursuant to a Qualifying Offer (or a wholly owned subsidiary of such Person or Persons), (ii) the price per Ordinary Share offered in such transaction is not less than the price per Ordinary Share paid to all holders of Ordinary Shares whose shares were purchased pursuant to such tender, exchange or takeover offer, and (iii) the form of consideration being offered to the remaining holders of Ordinary Shares pursuant to such transaction is the same as the form of consideration paid pursuant to such tender, exchange or takeover offer. Upon consummation of any such transaction contemplated by this Section 13(d), all Rights hereunder shall expire.
     Section 14. .
Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares
          (a) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Rights, except those issued prior to the Distribution Date as provided in Section 11(p) hereof, or to distribute Rights Certificates which evidence fractional Rights. In lieu of such fractional Rights, there may be paid to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would otherwise be issuable an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Right. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the Rights for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such fractional Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price of the Rights for any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Rights are listed or admitted to trading, or if the Rights are not listed or
 
admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by NASDAQ or such other system then in use or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Rights selected by the Board of Directors of the Company. If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Rights the fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be used.
          (b) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Preferred Shares upon exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Preferred Shares. In lieu of fractional Preferred Shares, the Company may pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one (1) Preferred Share. For purposes of this Section 14(b), the current market value of one (1) Preferred Share shall be the closing price of one (1) Preferred Share (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(ii) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise. The Company may, at its option, elect to issue fractional Preferred Shares only in fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share. To the extent any fractional Preferred Shares may be issued, such fractional Preferred Shares may, at the option of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts.
          (c) Following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Ordinary Shares upon exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Ordinary Shares. In lieu of fractional Ordinary Shares, the Company may pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one (1) Ordinary Share. For purposes of this Section 14(c), the current market value of one (1) Ordinary Share shall be the closing price of one (1) Ordinary Share (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise.
          (d) The holder of a Right by the acceptance of the Rights expressly waives his right to receive any fractional Rights or any fractional shares upon exercise of a Right, except as permitted by this Section 14.
     Section 15. . All rights of action in respect of this Agreement are vested in the respective registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the Ordinary Shares); and any registered holder of any Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Ordinary Shares), without the consent of the Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Ordinary Shares), may, in his own behalf and for his own benefit, enforce and may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding against the Company to enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, his right to exercise the Rights evidenced by such Rights Certificate in the manner provided in such Rights Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing or any remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged that
Rights of Action
 
the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law for any breach of this Agreement and shall be entitled to specific performance of the obligations hereunder and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations of the obligations hereunder of any Person subject to this Agreement.
     Section 16. . Every holder of a Right by accepting the same consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent and with every other holder of a Right that:
Agreement of Rights Holders
          (a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of Ordinary Shares;
          (b) after the Distribution Date, the Rights Certificates are transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purposes, duly endorsed or accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer and with the appropriate forms and certificates fully executed;
          (c) subject to Section 6(a) and Section 7(f) hereof, the Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the person in whose name a Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the associated certificate representing Ordinary Shares) is registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the Rights Certificates or the associated certificate representing Ordinary Shares made by anyone other than the Company or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither the Company nor the Rights Agent, subject to the last sentence of Section 7(e) hereof, shall be required to be affected by any notice to the contrary; and
          (d) notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Company nor the Rights Agent shall have any liability to any holder of a Right or other Person as a result of its inability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement by reason of any preliminary or permanent injunction or other order, decree or ruling issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a governmental, regulatory or administrative agency or commission, or any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any governmental authority, prohibiting or otherwise restraining performance of such obligation; , however, the Company must use all reasonable endeavours to have any such order, decree or ruling lifted or otherwise overturned as soon as possible.
provided
     Section 17. . No holder, as such, of any Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share or any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise of the Rights represented thereby, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Rights Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Rights Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to shareholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting shareholders (except as provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights
Rights Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Shareholder
 
evidenced by such Rights Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance with the provisions hereof.
     Section 18. .
Concerning the Rights Agent
          (a) The Company agrees to, or to procure that a subsidiary of the Company will, pay to the Rights Agent reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and, from time to time, on demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable expenses and counsel fees and disbursements and other disbursements incurred in the administration and execution of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder. The Company also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability, or expense, incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent, for anything done or omitted by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance and administration of this Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending against any claim of liability in the premises.
          (b) The Rights Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection with its administration of this Agreement in reliance upon any Rights Certificate or certificate for Ordinary Shares or for other securities of the Company, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement, affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and, where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper Person or Persons.
     Section 19. .
Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent
          (a) Any corporation into which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate trust or stock transfer business of the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; , however, that such corporation would be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of Section 21 hereof. In case at the time such successor Rights Agent shall succeed to the agency created by this Agreement, any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of a predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in the name of the predecessor or in the name of the successor Rights Agent; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
provided
          (b) In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed and at such time any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior name and deliver Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been
 
countersigned, the Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in its prior name or in its changed name; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
     Section 20. . The Rights Agent undertakes the duties and obligations imposed by this Agreement upon the following terms and conditions, by all of which the Company and the holders of Rights Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:
Duties of Rights Agent
          (a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be legal counsel for the Company), and the opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent as to any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.
          (b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or matter (including, without limitation, the identity of any Acquiring Person and the determination of "current market price") be proved or established by the Company prior to taking or suffering any action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full authorization to the Rights Agent for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it under the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate.
          (c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
          (d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the Rights Certificates or be required to verify the same (except as to its countersignature on such Rights Certificates), but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to have been made by the Company only.
          (e) The Rights Agent shall not be under any responsibility in respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof (except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the validity or execution of any Rights Certificate (except its countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Company of any covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Rights Certificate; nor shall it be responsible for any adjustment required under the provisions of Section 11 or Section 13 hereof or responsible for the manner, method or amount of any such adjustment or the ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any such adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Rights evidenced by Rights Certificates after actual notice of any such adjustment); nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation of any Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Rights Certificate or as to whether any Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares will, when so issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
 
          (f) The Company agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights Agent of the provisions of this Agreement.
          (g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company, and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection with its duties, and it shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with instructions of any such officer.
          (h) The Rights Agent and any shareholder, director, officer or employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Rights Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other legal entity.
          (i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Company resulting from any such act, default, neglect or misconduct; provided, however, reasonable care was exercised in the selection and continued employment thereof.
          (j) No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of its rights if there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
          (k) If, with respect to any Right Certificate surrendered to the Rights Agent for exercise or transfer, the certificate attached to the form of assignment or form of election to purchase, as the case may be, has either not been completed or indicates an affirmative response to clause 1 and/or 2 thereof, the Rights Agent shall not take any further action with respect to such requested exercise of transfer without first consulting with the Company.
     Section 21. . The Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement upon 30 days notice in writing mailed to the Company and, in the event that any transfer agent of the Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares is a Person other than the Rights Agent or one of the Rights Agent's Affiliates, to each such transfer agent, in each case by registered or certified mail. The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon 30 days notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. In the event the transfer agency relationship in effect
Change of Rights Agent
 
between the Company and the Rights Agent terminates, the Rights Agent will be deemed to resign automatically on the effective date of such termination, and any required notice will be sent by the Company. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within a period of 30 days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Rights Certificate (who shall, with such notice, submit such holder's Rights Certificate for inspection by the Company), then any registered holder of any Rights Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be a corporation or trust company organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any state of the United States, in good standing, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority and which has individually or combined with an Affiliate at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million dollars. After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment the Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, and mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.
     Section 22. . Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Company may, at its option, issue new Rights Certificates evidencing Rights in such form as may be approved by its Board of Directors to reflect any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other securities or property purchasable under the Rights Certificates made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In addition, in connection with the issuance or sale of Ordinary Shares following the Distribution Date and prior to the redemption or expiration of the Rights, the Company (a) shall, with respect to Ordinary Shares so issued or sold pursuant to the exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement, granted or awarded as of the Distribution Date, or upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of securities hereinafter issued by the Company, and (b) may, in any other case, if deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Company, issue Rights Certificates representing the appropriate number of Rights in connection with such issuance or sale; , however, that (i) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, the Company shall be advised by counsel that such issuance would create a significant risk of material adverse tax consequences to the Company or the Person to whom such Rights Certificate would be issued, and (ii) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, appropriate adjustment shall otherwise have been made in lieu of the issuance thereof.
Issuance of New Rights Certificates
provided
 
     Section 23. .
Redemption and Termination
          (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at any time prior to the earlier of (i) such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person or (ii) the Final Expiration Date, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of US$.01 per Right, as such amount may be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price being hereinafter referred to as the "Redemption Price"). The Company may, at its option, pay the Redemption Price in cash, Ordinary Shares (based on the "current market price," as defined in Section 11(d)(i) hereof, of the Ordinary Shares at the time of redemption) or any other form of consideration deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors.
          (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Company ordering the redemption of the Rights, evidence of which shall have been filed with the Rights Agent and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right thereafter of the holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price for each Right so held. Promptly after the action of the Board of Directors ordering the redemption of the Rights, the Company shall give notice of such redemption to the Rights Agent and the holders of the then outstanding Rights by mailing such notice to all such holders at each holder's last address as it appears upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent for the Ordinary Shares. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of redemption will state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be made.
     Section 24. .
Exchange
          (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, exchange all or part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not include Rights that have become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof) for Ordinary Shares at an exchange ratio of one Ordinary Share per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any adjustment in the number of Rights pursuant to Section 11(i) and any adjustment in the number of Rights associated with each Ordinary Share pursuant to Section 11(p) (such exchange ratio being hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Ratio"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors of the Company shall not be empowered to effect such exchange at any time after any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, or any entity holding Ordinary Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan), together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the Ordinary Shares then outstanding.
          (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Company ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 24 and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of such Rights shall be to receive that number of Ordinary Shares equal to the number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The Company shall promptly give public notice of any such exchange; provided, however, that
 
the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the validity of such exchange. The Company promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange to all of the holders of such Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of exchange will state the method by which the exchange of the Ordinary Shares for Rights will be effected, and, in the event of any partial exchange, the number of Rights which will be exchanged. Any partial exchange shall be effected pro rata based on the number of Rights (other than Rights which have become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof) held by each holder of Rights.
          (c) In the event that there shall not be sufficient Ordinary Shares issued but not outstanding or authorized but unissued to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with this Section 24 or any exercise of Rights as contemplated in accordance with Section 11(q), the Company shall take all such reasonable action as may be necessary to authorize additional Ordinary Shares for issuance upon such exchange or exercise, as applicable, of the Rights. In the event the Company shall, after good faith effort, be unable to take all such action as may be necessary to authorize such additional Ordinary Shares, the Company shall substitute, for each Ordinary Share that would otherwise be issuable upon such exchange or exercise, as applicable, of a Right, a number of Preferred Shares or, subject to paragraph (d) below, fraction thereof such that the current per share market price of one Preferred Share multiplied by such number or fraction is equal to the current per share market price of one Ordinary Share as of the date of issuance of such Preferred Shares or fraction thereof.
          (d) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares in connection with any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with this Section 24 or any exercise of Rights as contemplated in accordance with Section 11(q). In lieu of such fractional Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares, the Company shall pay to the registered holders of the Right Certificates with regard to which such fractional Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares would otherwise be issuable an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Ordinary Share or Preferred Share, as applicable. For the purposes of this paragraph (d), the current market value of a whole Ordinary Share or Preferred Share shall be the closing price of an Ordinary Share or Preferred Share, as applicable (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) or Section 11(d)(ii) hereof, as applicable), for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of exchange pursuant to this Section 24 or of exercise pursuant to Section 11(q), as applicable.
     Section 25. .
Notice of Certain Events
          (a) In case the Company shall propose, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to the holders of Preferred Shares or to make any other distribution to the holders of Preferred Shares (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of earnings or retained earnings of the Company), or (ii) to offer to the holders of Preferred Share rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any additional Preferred Shares or shares of any class or any other securities, rights or options, or (iii) to effect any reclassification of its Preferred Shares (other than a reclassification involving only the
 
subdivision of outstanding Preferred Shares), or (iv) to effect any consolidation, merger or scheme of arrangement into or with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or to effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries to effect any sale or other transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or (v) to effect the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, then, in each such case, the Company shall give to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of such proposed action, which shall specify the record date for the purposes of such stock dividend, distribution of rights or warrants, or the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution, or winding up is to take place and the date of participation therein by the holders of the Preferred Shares, if any such date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least twenty (20) days prior to the record date for determining holders of the Preferred Shares for purposes of such action, and in the case of any such other action, at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action or the date of participation therein by the holders of the Preferred Shares whichever shall be the earlier.
          (b) In case the Section 11(a)(ii) Event shall occur or an election shall be made pursuant to Section 11(q), (i) the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter give to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of the occurrence of such event, which shall specify the event and the consequences of the event to holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii) or 11(q) hereof, as applicable, and (ii) all references in the preceding paragraph to Preferred Shares shall be deemed thereafter to refer to Ordinary Shares and/or, if appropriate, other securities.
     Section 26. . Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Company shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by overnight delivery service or first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Rights Agent) as follows:
Notices
Cooper Industries plc Chase Tower 600 Travis Street, Suite 5800 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Secretary
Subject to the provisions of Section 21, any notice or demand authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by overnight delivery service or first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Company) as follows:
 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 250 Royall Street Canton, Massachusetts 02021 Attn: Client Services
Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Rights Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to the holder of certificates representing Ordinary Shares) shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as shown on the registry books of the Company.
     Section 27. . Prior to the Distribution Date and subject to the penultimate sentence of this Section 27, the Company and the Rights Agent may (and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs) supplement or amend any provision of this Agreement without the approval of any holders of certificates representing Ordinary Shares. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company may at any time prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person amend this Agreement to lower the thresholds set forth in Section 1(a), 3(a) and 11(a) hereof and this Section 27 to not less than 10% (the "Reduced Threshold"); , however, that no Person who beneficially owns a number of Ordinary Shares equal to or greater than the Reduced Threshold shall become an Acquiring Person unless such Person shall, after the public announcement of the Reduced Threshold, increase its beneficial ownership of the then outstanding Ordinary Shares (other than as a result of an acquisition of Ordinary Shares by the Company) to an amount equal to or greater than the greater of (x) the Reduced Threshold or (y) the sum of (i) the lowest beneficial ownership of such Person as a percentage of the outstanding Ordinary Shares as of any date on or after the date of the public announcement of such Reduced Threshold plus (ii) 0.001%. From and after the Distribution Date and subject to the penultimate sentence of this Section 27, the Company and the Rights Agent may (and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs) supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights Certificates in order (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or supplement any provision contained herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provisions herein, (iii) to shorten or lengthen any time period hereunder, or (iv) to change or supplement the provisions hereunder in any manner which the Company may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Rights Certificates (other than an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person); , this Agreement may not be supplemented or amended to lengthen, pursuant to clause (iii) of this sentence, (A) a time period relating to when the Rights may be redeemed at such time as the Rights are not then redeemable, or (B) any other time period unless such lengthening is for the purpose of protecting, enhancing or clarifying the rights of, and/or the benefits to, the holders of Rights. Upon the delivery of a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company which states that the proposed supplement or amendment is in compliance with the terms of this Section 27, the Rights Agent shall execute such supplement or amendment. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including the next sentence), the Company and the Rights Agent may (and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs) supplement or amend this Agreement at any time without the approval of any holders of certificates representing Ordinary Shares or of any holders of Rights Certificates in order to conform the provisions hereof to applicable law. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Supplements and Amendments
provided
provided
 
Agreement to the contrary (except as described in the preceding sentence and the proviso to this sentence), no supplement or amendment shall be made which changes the Redemption Price, the Final Expiration Date, the Purchase Price or the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is exercisable; , however, that at any time prior to (i) a Stock Acquisition Date or (ii) the date that a tender, exchange or takeover offer by any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) is first published or sent or given within the meaning of Rule 14d-2(a) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, if upon consummation thereof, such Person would be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares then outstanding, the Board of Directors of the Company may amend this Agreement to increase the Purchase Price or extend the Final Expiration Date. Prior to the Distribution Date, the interests of the holders of Rights shall be deemed coincident with the interests of the holders of Ordinary Shares.
provided
     Section 28. . All the covenants and provisions of this Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder.
Successors
     Section 29. . For all purposes of this Agreement, any calculation of the number of Ordinary Shares outstanding at any particular time, including for purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding Ordinary Shares of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, shall be made in accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. The Board of Directors of the Company (with, where specifically provided for herein, the concurrence of the Continuing Directors) shall have the exclusive power and authority to administer this Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically granted to the Board (with, where specifically provided for herein, the concurrence of the Continuing Directors) or to the Company, or as may be necessary or advisable in the administration of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the right and power to (i) interpret the provisions of this Agreement, and (ii) make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this Agreement (including a determination to redeem or not redeem the Rights or to amend the Agreement). All such actions, calculations, interpretations and determinations (including, for purposes of clause (y) below, all omissions with respect to the foregoing) which are done or made by the Board (with, where specifically provided for herein, the concurrence of the Continuing Directors) in good faith, shall (x) be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Rights Agent, the holders of the Rights and all other parties, and (y) not subject the Board or the Continuing Directors to any liability to the holders of the Rights.
Determinations and Actions by the Board of Directors, etc
     Section 30. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give to any Person other than the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Ordinary Shares) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Ordinary Shares).
Benefits of this Agreement
 
     Section 31. . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated; , however, that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if any such term, provision, covenant or restriction is held by such court or authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable and the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment that severing the invalid language from this Agreement would adversely affect the purpose or effect of this Agreement, the right of redemption set forth in Section 23 hereof shall be reinstated and shall not expire until the close of business on the tenth Business Day following the date of such determination by the Board of Directors. Without limiting the foregoing, if any provision requiring a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company to be Continuing Directors to act is held by any court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, such determination shall then be made by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with applicable law and the Company's Articles.
Severability
provided
     Section 32. . This Agreement, each Right and each Rights Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of Ireland and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland; provided, however, that all provisions regarding the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such Commonwealth. The Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, USA, is to have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with any Right or this Agreement. Any proceeding, suit or action arising out of or in connection with any Right or this Agreement (the "Proceedings") shall therefore be brought in such court. No person shall be entitled to object to Proceedings in such court on the grounds of venue or on the grounds of forum non conveniens.
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
     Section 33. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     Section 34. . Descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Descriptive Headings
     Section 35. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be liable for any delays or failures in performance resulting from acts beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of God, terrorist acts, shortage of supply, breakdowns or malfunctions, interruptions or malfunction of computer facilities, or loss of data due to power failures or mechanical difficulties with information storage or retrieval systems, labour difficulties, war or civil unrest.
Force Majeure
     Section 36. . This Agreement shall become effective immediately prior to the Transaction Time. Upon effectiveness of this Agreement, each Old Right shall terminate and become null and void without any further action, and no holder of Old
Effectiveness; Old Rights
 
Rights shall have any rights whatsoever with respect to such Old Rights, whether under any provision of this Agreement or otherwise. The Company shall notify the Rights Agent by electronic mail of the occurrence of the Transaction Time promptly thereafter.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deed Poll has been executed and delivered as a Deed on the day and year first before written.
Given under the Common Seal of COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC By
Executed and Delivered as a Deed by the duly authorised representative for and on behalf of COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD.
Signed by a duly authorised representative of COMPUTERSHARE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
 
Exhibit A
     I, Bruce M. Taten, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Cooper Industries plc, a company incorporated in Ireland under registered number 471954 (the "Company"), DO HEREBY CERTIFY:
     That the board of directors of the Company on September 1, 2009 adopted the following resolution:
     RESOLVED that the Series A Participating Preferred Shares are to be created as a series of preferred shares of the Company as at the Transaction Time and that the designation and amount thereof and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof are as set out below;
     Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Participating Preferred Shares" and the number of shares constituting such series shall initially be 2,500,000, par value US$.01 per share, such number of shares to be subject to increase or decrease by action of the board of directors.
Designation and Amount
     Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
     a. Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Shares ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Participating Preferred Shares with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Shares in preference to the holders of Ordinary Shares, par value US$.01 per share, of the Company (the "Ordinary Shares") and of any other junior shares shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available therefor, including capital surplus, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first business day of October, January, April and July in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Shares, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) US$10.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Ordinary Shares or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Ordinary Shares (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Ordinary Shares since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Shares. In the event the Company shall at any time (i) declare any dividend on Ordinary Shares
 
payable in Ordinary Shares, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Ordinary Shares, or (iii) consolidate the outstanding Ordinary Shares into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of Ordinary Shares that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     b. The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Participating Preferred Shares as provided in paragraph (a) above concurrently with its declaration of a dividend or distribution on the Ordinary Shares (other than a dividend payable in Ordinary Shares); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Ordinary Shares during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of US$10.00 per Series A Participating Preferred Share shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
     c. Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding Series A Participating Preferred Shares from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of Series A Participating Preferred Shares entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the Series A Participating Preferred Shares in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The board of directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Shares entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
     Section 3. . The holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
     a. Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each Series A Participating Preferred Share shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Company. In the event the Company shall at any time (i) declare any dividend on Ordinary Shares payable in Ordinary Shares, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Ordinary Shares, or (iii) consolidate the outstanding Ordinary Shares into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
 
Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of Ordinary Shares that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     b. Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company or under applicable law, the holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares and the holders of Ordinary Shares shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Company.
     c. If at any time dividends on any Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (a "default period") that shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all Series A Participating Preferred Shares then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares together with any other series of Preferred Shares then entitled to such a vote under the terms of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, voting as a separate class, shall be entitled to elect two members of the board of directors of the Company.
 
     d. Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Shares, as a separate class, to elect directors shall cease, (y) the term of any directors elected by the holders of Preferred Shares, as a separate class, shall terminate, and (z) the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in, or pursuant to, the Memorandum and Articles of Association irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3(c)(i) (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company). Any vacancies in the board of directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, that a quorum is present.
provided
 
     e. Except as set forth herein or as otherwise provided in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Ordinary Shares as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
     Section 4.
Restrictions
     a. Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Participating Preferred Shares as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on Series A Participating Preferred Shares outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not:
     (1) declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, for consideration any shares of any class of shares ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Participating Preferred Shares;
     (2) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Participating Preferred Shares, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Participating Preferred Shares and all such parity shares on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or
     (3) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any Series A Participating Preferred Shares or any shares ranking on a parity with the Series A Participating Preferred Shares, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the board of directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the board of directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any such parity shares in exchange for any shares of the Company ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Participating Preferred Shares.
provided
     b. The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
     Section 5. . Any Series A Participating Preferred Shares purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorised but unissued Preferred Shares and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred
Reacquired Shares
 
Shares to be created by resolution or resolutions of the board of directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
     Section 6. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
     a. Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Company, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Participating Preferred Shares unless, prior thereto, the holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation Preference"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares unless, prior thereto, the holders of Ordinary Shares shall have received an amount per share (the "Ordinary Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 100 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in paragraph (c) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalisations with respect to the Ordinary Shares) (such number in clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Ordinary Adjustment in respect of all outstanding Series A Participating Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares, respectively, holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares and holders of Ordinary Shares shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Series A Participating Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares, on a per share basis, respectively.
     b. If there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of Preferred Shares, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Participating Preferred Shares then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. If there are sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference, but there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Ordinary Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Ordinary Shares.
     c. If the Company shall at any time (i) declare any dividend on Ordinary Shares payable in Ordinary Shares, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Ordinary Shares, or (iii) consolidate the outstanding Ordinary Shares into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Ordinary Shares that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     Section 7. . The shares of Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
     Section 8. . The Series A Participating Preferred Shares shall rank junior to all other series of the Company's Preferred Shares as to the payment of dividends and
Ranking
 
the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
     Section 9. . The Articles of Association of the Company shall not be further amended in any manner which would alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Participating Preferred Shares without a special resolution of the holders of the outstanding shares of the Series A Participating Preferred Shares, voting separately as a class.
Amendment
     Section 10. . Series A Participating Preferred Shares may (if permitted by applicable law) be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Participating Preferred Shares.
Fractional Shares
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I do affirm the foregoing as true this 8 day of September, 2009.
th
 
Exhibit B
NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER AUGUST 1, 2017 OR EARLIER IF REDEEMED BY THE COMPANY. THE RIGHTS ARE SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION, AT THE OPTION OF THE COMPANY, AT US$.01 PER RIGHT ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RIGHTS BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERM IS DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT) AND ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF SUCH RIGHTS MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID. [THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED BY THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE ARE OR WERE BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY A PERSON WHO WAS OR BECAME AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR AN AFFILIATE OR ASSOCIATE OF AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT). ACCORDINGLY, THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE AND THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SPECIFIED IN SECTION 7(e) OF SUCH AGREEMENT.]
1
This certifies that      , or registered assigns, is the registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2009 (the "Rights Agreement"), by and among Cooper Industries, plc, a company incorporated in Ireland under registered number 471954 (the "Company"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company, and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., (the "Rights Agent"), to purchase from the Company at any time prior to 5:00 P.M. (New York, New York time) on August 1, 2017 at the office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, or its successors as Rights Agent, one one-hundredth of a fully paid, nonassessable share of Series A Participating Preferred Shares (the "Preferred Shares") of the Company, at a purchase price of US$600 per one one-hundredth of a share (the "Purchase Price"), upon presentation and surrender of this Rights Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase and related Certificate duly executed. The Purchase Price shall be paid, at the election of the holder, in cash or Ordinary Shares of the Company having an equivalent value. The number of Rights evidenced
 
 
by this Rights Certificate (and the number of shares which may be purchased upon exercise thereof) set forth above, and the Purchase Price per share set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of the date of the Rights Agreement based on the Preferred Shares as constituted at such date.
     Upon the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement), if the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), (ii) a transferee of any such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate, or (iii) under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement, a transferee of a person who, after such transfer, became an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, such Rights shall become null and void and no holder hereof shall have any right with respect to such Rights from and after the occurrence of the Section 11(a)(ii) Event.
     As provided in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number and kind of Preferred Shares or other securities, which may be purchased upon the exercise of the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are subject to modification and adjustment upon the happening of certain events, including Triggering Events.
     This Rights Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which Rights Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the Rights Agent, which limitations of rights include the temporary suspension of the exercisability of such Rights under the specific circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement. Copies of the Rights Agreement are on file at the above-mentioned office of the Rights Agent and are also available upon written request to the Rights Agent.
     This Rights Certificate, with or without other Rights Certificates, upon surrender at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, may be exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates of like tenor and date evidencing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like aggregate number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as the Rights evidenced by the Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to purchase. If this Rights Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised.
     Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Rights evidenced by this Certificate (a) may be redeemed by the Company at its option at a redemption price of US$.01 per Right or (b) may be exchanged in whole or in part for Preferred Shares or the Company's Ordinary Shares, par value $0.01 per share.
     The Company is not required to issue fractional Preferred Shares upon the exercise of any Right or Rights evidenced hereby, but in lieu thereof a cash payment may be made, as provided in the Rights Agreement. To the extent any fractional Preferred Shares may be issued, such fractional Preferred Shares may, at the option of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts.
 
     No holder of this Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of Preferred Shares or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to shareholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or, to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting shareholders (except as provided in the Rights Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Rights Agreement.
     This Rights Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent.
     WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company and its corporate seal.
Dated as of ,
               
          
          
 
this Rights Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney, to transfer the within Rights Certificate on the books of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution.
            
                    
     The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
     (1) this Rights Certificate [     ] is [     ] is not being sold, assigned and transferred by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement); and
     (2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it [     ] did [     ] did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
 
          The signature to the foregoing Assignment and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
     The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise Rights represented by this Rights Certificate to purchase the Preferred Shares issuable upon the exercise of the Rights (or such other securities of the Company or of any other person which may be issuable upon the exercise of the Rights) and requests that certificates for such shares be issued in the name of and delivered to:
                    
                    
Please insert social security or other identifying number
     If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate, a new Rights Certificate for the balance of such Rights shall be registered in the name of and delivered to:
Please insert social security or other identifying number
 
Signature Guaranteed:
     The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
          (1) the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate [   ] are [   ] are not being exercised by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement); and
          (2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it [   ] did [   ] did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
     The signature to the foregoing Election to Purchase and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

Exhibit 4.2
 
     This dated as of September 8, 2009 (this "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), is made and entered into by and among Cooper Industries, LLCa Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"); Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company (the "Guarantor"), Cooper Industries plc, an Irish public limited company (the "New Guarantor") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE,
,
     , Cooper Industries, Inc. entered into an Indenture dated as of January 15, 1990 (as amended prior to the date hereof, the "Indenture") with The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), for the purpose of issuing its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Debentures") in one or more series, unlimited as to aggregate principal amount and bearing such rates of interest, if any, maturing at such time or times and having such other designations as shall be fixed in accordance with the Indenture;
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture among Cooper Industries, Inc., the Guarantor and the Trustee dated as of May 15, 2002, the Guarantor has guaranteed to each holder of a Debenture the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of Cooper Industries, Inc. under the Indenture;
WHEREAS
     , the Trustee is the successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, which was the successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), and has succeeded to all interests of such entity under the Indenture;
WHEREAS
     , Cooper Industries, Inc., the Guarantor and the Trustee entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 21, 2002 and a Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 28, 2002;
WHEREAS
     the Company, as successor by merger to Cooper Industries, Inc., the Guarantor and the Trustee entered into a Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 1, 2005;
WHEREAS,
     , pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Bermuda law that will become effective on the date hereof, the holders of the Class A common shares of the Guarantor (other than subsidiaries of the Guarantor that hold Class A common shares) will become holders of ordinary shares of the New Guarantor and the Guarantor will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the New Guarantor;
WHEREAS
     , the New Guarantor desires to guarantee the payment and other obligations of the Company under the Indenture as set forth in Section 1 hereof (the "New Guarantee");
WHEREAS
     , the entry into this Fifth Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects permitted by the provisions of Section 11.01 of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS
 
     , all corporate and other action necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding agreement of the Company, the Guarantor and the New Guarantor in accordance with its terms have been done.
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the foregoing premises, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     . Except as otherwise provided herein, the New Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Debenture authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Debentures and of the Indenture. The New Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally also guarantees to the Trustee the due and punctual payment of all obligations of the Company to the Trustee under the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the New Guarantor hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The New Guarantor agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debentures or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of Article Thirteen of the Indenture), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company, the Guarantor or the New Guarantor or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Debentures or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The New Guarantor hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Debentures or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that this New Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Debentures except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debentures and in this New Guarantee. The New Guarantor agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Debentures, to collect any principal, interest or premium, if any, on the Debentures, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Debentures, the New Guarantor agrees to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Section 1
 
     The New Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Debentures upon which its New Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the New Guarantor on account of the Debentures pursuant to the provisions of this New Guarantee or the Indenture; provided, however, that the New Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all Debentures issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
     This New Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Debentures, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Debentures, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Debentures shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this New Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this New Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     The obligations of the New Guarantor under this Section 1 shall be joint and several with the obligations of the Guarantor under the Guarantee.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Section 1 to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures; and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, the New Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Section 1. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this New Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Debentures, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the New Guarantor from its obligations under this New Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this New Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the New Guarantor under this New Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this New Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the New Guarantor shall enter into an amendment to this New Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
 
     . The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Fifth Supplemental Indenture and all other supplemental indentures prior to the date hereof, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 2
     . If and to the extent any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture by any provision of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, such required provision shall control.
Section 3
     . In case any provision in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or in the Debentures of any series heretofore issued shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 4
     . This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the said State.
Section 5
     . Capitalized terms used in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture that are not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Indenture shall remain as set forth therein.
Section 6
     . This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7
     . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by the Company, the Guarantor and the New Guarantor.
Section 8
 
     , the parties have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

Exhibit 4.3
 
     This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 8, 2009 (this "First Supplemental Indenture"), is made and entered into by and among COOPER US, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"); COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Parent"); COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC, an Irish public limited company (the "New Guarantor"); and the following subsidiaries of Cooper Parent: COOPER B-LINE, INC., a Delaware corporation, COOPER BUSSMANN, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, COOPER CROUSE-HINDS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, COOPER LIGHTING, LLCa Delaware limited liability company, COOPER POWER SYSTEMS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, COOPER WIRING DEVICES, INC., a New York corporation; and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the "Trustee").
,
     , the Company, Cooper Parent and the subsidiaries of Cooper Parent named above (such subsidiaries, together with Cooper Parent, the "Guarantors") entered into an Indenture dated as of November 8, 2005 (the "Indenture") with the Trustee, for the purpose of issuing its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Debentures") in one or more series, unlimited as to aggregate principal amount and bearing such rates of interest, if any, maturing at such time or times and having such other designations as shall be fixed in accordance with the Indenture;
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Bermuda law that will become effective on the date hereof, the holders of the Class A common shares of Cooper Parent (other than subsidiaries of Cooper Parent that hold Class A common shares) will become holders of ordinary shares of the New Guarantor and Cooper Parent will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the New Guarantor;
WHEREAS
     , the Trustee is the successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and has succeeded to all interests of such entity under the Indenture;
WHEREAS
     , the New Guarantor desires to guarantee the payment and other obligations of the Company under the Indenture as set forth in Section 1 hereof (the "New Guarantee");
WHEREAS
     , the entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects permitted by the provisions of Section 11.01 of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS
     , all corporate and other action necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding agreement of the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor in accordance with its terms have been done.
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the foregoing premises, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
     . Except as otherwise provided herein, the New Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Debenture authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, including all obligations thereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Debentures and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the New Guarantor hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The New Guarantor agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debentures or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of Article Thirteen of the Indenture), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company, the Guarantors or the New Guarantor or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Debentures or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The New Guarantor hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Debentures or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that this New Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Debentures except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debentures and in this New Guarantee. The New Guarantor agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Debentures, to collect any principal, interest or premium, if any, on the Debentures, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Debentures, the New Guarantor agrees to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Section 1
     The New Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Debentures upon which its New Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the New Guarantor on account of the Debentures pursuant to the provisions of this New Guarantee or the Indenture; provided, however, that the New Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all Debentures issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
     This New Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a
 
receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Debentures, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Debentures, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Debentures shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this New Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this New Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     The obligations of the New Guarantor under this Section 1 shall be joint and several with the obligations of each of the Guarantors under their respective Guarantees.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Section 1 to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures; and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, the New Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Section 1. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this New Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Debentures, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the New Guarantor from its obligations under this New Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this New Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the New Guarantor under this New Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this New Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the New Guarantor shall enter into an amendment to this New Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
     . The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 2
     . If and to the extent any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture by any provision of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, such required provision shall control.
Section 3
 
     . In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Debentures of any series heretofore issued shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 4
     . This First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the said State.
Section 5
     . Capitalized terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture that are not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Indenture shall remain as set forth therein.
Section 6
     . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7
     . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor.
Section 8
 
     , the parties have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 4.4
 
     dated as of September 8, 2009 (this ""), by and among (i) a Delaware corporation (the "" or the ""), (ii) , an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of Bermuda (""), (iii) , a public limited company formed under the laws of Ireland (the ""), (iv) , a Delaware corporation (""), , a Delaware limited liability company (""), , a Delaware limited liability company (""), a Delaware limited liability company (""), , a Delaware limited liability company ("") and , a New York corporation (""), and (v) , a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "").
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Third Supplemental Indenture
Cooper US, Inc.,
Issuer
Company
Cooper Industries, Ltd.
Cooper Parent
Cooper Industries plc
New Guarantor
Cooper B-Line, Inc.
B-Line
Cooper Bussmann, LLC
Bussmann
Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC
Crouse
,
Cooper Lighting, LLC
Lighting
Cooper Power Systems, LLC
Power Systems
Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
Wiring
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
Trustee
     , the Issuer and Cooper Parent have heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of June 18, 2007 (the ""), with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee;
WHEREAS
Original Indenture
     , the Issuer, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, previously entered into that certain First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 18, 2007 (the "");
WHEREAS
First Supplemental Indenture
     the Issuer, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, previously entered into that certain Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 27, 2008 (the "");
WHEREAS,
Second Supplemental Indenture
     the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "";
WHEREAS,
Indenture
     , pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Bermuda law that will become effective on the date hereof, the holders of Class A common shares of Cooper Parent (other than subsidiaries of Cooper Parent that hold Class A common shares) will become holders of ordinary shares of the New Guarantor and Cooper Parent will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the New Guarantor;
WHEREAS
     , the New Guarantor desires to guarantee the payment and other obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture as set forth in Section 1 hereof (the "");
WHEREAS
New Guarantee
     , the entry into this Third Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects permitted by the provisions of Section 11.01(k) of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS
     , all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
WHEREAS
 
     in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     . Except as otherwise provided herein, the New Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Debt Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, including all obligations thereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Debt Securities and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the New Guarantor hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The New Guarantor agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debt Securities or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of Article Thirteen of the Indenture), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company, the Guarantors or the New Guarantor or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Debt Securities or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The New Guarantor hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Debt Securities or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that this New Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Debt Securities except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debt Securities and in this New Guarantee or the operation, as applicable, of Article Thirteen of the Indenture. The New Guarantor agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Debt Securities, to collect any principal of, or, interest or premium, if any, on, the Debt Securities, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Debt Securities, the New Guarantor agrees to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Section 1
     The New Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities upon which its New Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the New Guarantor on account of the Debt Securities pursuant to the provisions of this New Guarantee or the Indenture; , that the New Guarantor shall not be entitled to
provided, however
 
enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all Debt Securities issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
     This New Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Debt Securities, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Debt Securities, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Debt Securities shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this New Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this New Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     The obligations of the New Guarantor under this Section 1 shall be joint and several with the obligations of each of the Guarantors under their respective Guarantees.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Section 1 to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, the New Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Section 1. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this New Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Debt Securities, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the New Guarantor from its obligations under this New Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this New Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the New Guarantor under this New Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this New Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the New Guarantor shall enter into an amendment to this New Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
     . This Third Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Section 2
 
     . The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Section 3
     . All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned in the Original Indenture.
Section 4
     . This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each party hereto on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 5
     . THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 6
     . The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Third Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7
     . The Trustee hereby notifies each of the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor that pursuant to the requirement of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor, which information includes the name and address of each of the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor and other information that will allow the Trustee to identify each of the Company, the Guarantors and the New Guarantor in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Section 8
Patriot Act
 
     , the parties hereby have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and delivered by their duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
     DEED OF INDEMNIFICATION (this "Deed") by and among Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Ltd."), Cooper Industries plc, an Irish public limited company (the "Company"), and (the "Indemnitee").
                    
     WHEREAS, Cooper Ltd. has effected a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") pursuant to which the holders of Class A common shares of Cooper Ltd. (other than subsidiaries of Cooper Ltd. that held Class A common shares) became shareholders of the Company, and Cooper Ltd. became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company;
     WHEREAS, it is essential to Cooper Ltd. and the Company that the Company retain and attract as directors, secretaries, executives and representatives the most capable persons available;
     WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a director or secretary of the Company;
     WHEREAS, the articles of association of the Company provide that the indemnification provided therein shall not be exclusive;
     WHEREAS, due to restrictions imposed by Irish law, the articles of association of the Company do not confer indemnification and advancement rights on its directors and secretary as broad as the indemnification and advancement rights that, prior to the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement, were provided by the Bye-laws of Cooper Ltd. to its directors and secretary;
     WHEREAS, in recognition of the Indemnitee's need for protection against personal liability in order to enhance Indemnitee's continued service to the Company in an effective manner, Cooper Ltd. and the Company wish to provide in this Deed for the indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the full extent permitted by law and as set forth in this Deed, and, to the extent insurance is maintained, for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policies;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of Indemnitee continuing to serve the Company directly or, at its request, with another enterprise, and intending to be legally bound hereby, this DEED PROVIDES as follows:
     1. 
Certain Definitions:
     (a) : shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner"
Change in Control
 
(as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 15% or more of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities without the prior approval of the Company's Board of Directors, or (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director whose election by such Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement which would result in the Voting Securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement, or (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets. For purposes of determining whether clause (ii) above has been complied with, the directors of Cooper Ltd. on the effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement shall be included in the determination of who the directors of the Company were during the relevant two year period until the second anniversary of the effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement.
     (b) any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, whether conducted by the Company or any other party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other.
Claim:
     (c) : include attorneys' (and other legal advisors') fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in (including on appeal) or preparing to defend, be a witness in or participate in, any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing).
Expenses
     (d) include judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement that are paid or payable in connection with any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing).
Judgments:
     (e) : any event or occurrence related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, secretary, executive or representative of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company in accordance with the Company's "Code of Ethics and Business Conduct," as a director, secretary, trustee, executive, employee, agent or representative of another corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for profit, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or prior to the Transaction Time (as defined in the Scheme of Arrangement) was a director, secretary, executive or representative of Cooper Ltd., or prior to the Transaction Time was serving at the request of Cooper Ltd. in accordance with Cooper Ltd.'s "Code of Ethics and Business Conduct," as a director, secretary, trustee, executive, employee, agent or representative of another
Indemnifiable Event
 
corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for profit, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity, except for any actions by Indemnitee determined by a court to constitute fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to the Company or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Ltd.
     (f) any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the Company's Board of Directors or any other person or body appointed by such Board (including the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 3) who is not a party to the particular Claim for which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification.
Reviewing Party:
     (g) : any securities of the Company that vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Securities
     2. 
Scope of Indemnification
     (a) . In the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Claim by reason of (or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event, Cooper Ltd. shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against any and all Expenses and Judgments arising from or relating to such Claim. Except as otherwise provided in Section 2(b), such indemnification shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than thirty (30) days, after written demand therefor is presented to Cooper Ltd. by or on behalf of the Indemnitee.
Indemnification of Judgments and Expenses
     (b) Any and all Expenses indemnifiable under Sections 2(a) and 2(c) shall, if so requested by the Indemnitee, be paid by Cooper Ltd. promptly as they are incurred by Indemnitee (any such payment of expenses by Cooper Ltd. is hereinafter referred to as an "Expense Advance"). Indemnitee shall be obligated, and hereby agrees, to repay the amount of Expenses so paid only to the extent that Indemnitee shall have been adjudged by the High Court of Ireland or the court in which such action or suit was brought to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duty to the Company or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Ltd. Indemnitee hereby further agrees to reasonably cooperate with the Company and Cooper Ltd. concerning any Claim.
Indemnification and Advance Payment of Expenses.
     (c) . Cooper Ltd. shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against any and all expenses (including attorneys' and other legal advisors' fees) that are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against or action brought by Indemnitee for (i) indemnification of Expenses or Judgments or advance payment of Expenses by Cooper Ltd. or the Company, whether under this Deed or under any other agreement, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws, statute or rule of law now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events and/or (ii) recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policy or policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advance Expense payment or insurance recovery, as the case may be.
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
     (d) . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Deed to indemnification by Cooper Ltd. for some or a portion of the Judgments and Expenses arising from or
Partial Indemnity
 
relating to a Claim but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, Cooper Ltd. shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
     (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims relating in whole or in part to an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the extent permitted by applicable law by the Company and Cooper Ltd. against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
Indemnification of Successful Defense Expenses.
     (f) Prior to making a written demand for indemnification or an Expense Advance, Indemnitee shall (i) seek such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, under any applicable insurance policy and (ii) request that the Company consider in its discretion whether to make such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable. Upon any such request by Indemnitee of the Company, the Company shall consider whether to make such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, based on the facts and circumstances related to the request. The Company may require, as a condition to making any indemnification or Expense Advance that Indemnitee enter into an agreement providing for such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, to be made subject to substantially the same terms and conditions applicable to an indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, by Cooper Ltd. hereunder. In the event indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, is not received pursuant to an insurance policy, or from the Company, within 60 calendar days of the later of Indemnitee's request of the insurer and Indemnitee's request of the Company as provided in clause (ii) of the first sentence of this Section 2(f), Indemnitee may make written demand on Cooper Ltd. for indemnification pursuant to Section 2(a) or make a request for Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(b).
Exhaustion of Remedies.
     3. 
Reviewing Party Determinations.
     (a) The Reviewing Party, in its discretion, may review the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments under this Deed. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, the obligations of Cooper Ltd. under Section 2(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 4 hereof is involved) that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law; provided, however, that if Indemnitee has commenced, or thereafter commences, legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) and any such determination by the Reviewing Party shall be modified, to the extent necessary, to conform to such final judicial determination.
General Rules.
     (b) If there has not been a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Company as soon as practicable after notice of a claim for indemnification. If there has been such a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 4 hereof.
Selection of Reviewing Party.
 
     (c) If there has been no determination by the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee substantially would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or in part under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any court having subject matter jurisdiction thereof seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, and the Company and Cooper Ltd. hereby consent to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding. Any determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, Cooper Ltd. and Indemnitee.
Judicial Review.
     (d) . In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party pursuant to Section 3(a), or by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to Section 3(c) or otherwise, as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, the burden of proof shall be on the Company and/or Cooper Ltd., as applicable, to establish by clear and convincing evidence that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
Burden of Proof
     4. . The Company and Cooper Ltd. agree that if there is a Change in Control of the Company then with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments under this Deed or under any other agreement, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws, statute or rule of law now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events, the Company and Cooper Ltd. shall seek legal advice only from special, independent counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), and who has not otherwise performed services for the Company, Cooper Ltd. or Indemnitee within the last five years (other than in connection with such matters). Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company, Cooper Ltd. and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent the Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Cooper Ltd. agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the special, independent counsel referred to above and to indemnify fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' and other legal advisors' fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Deed or its engagement pursuant hereto.
Change in Control
     5. . For purposes of this Deed, the termination of any claim, action, suit or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of , or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee failed to meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law. In addition, neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have made a determination as to whether Indemnitee has met any particular standard of conduct or had any particular belief, nor an actual determination by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee has not met such standard of conduct or did not have such belief, prior to the commencement of legal proceedings by Indemnitee to secure a judicial determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law shall be a defense to Indemnitee's claim or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.
No Presumption
nolo contendere
     6. The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may now or hereafter have to indemnification by the Company or Cooper
Non-exclusivity.
 
Ltd. More specifically, the Parties intend that Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification to the maximum extent permitted by any or all of the following:
     (a) The fullest benefits provided by the Company's articles of association and Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws in effect on the date hereof, a copy of the relevant portions of which are attached hereto as Exhibit I;
     (b) The fullest benefits provided by the articles of association or their equivalent of the Company and the Bye-laws or their equivalent of Cooper Ltd. in effect at the time the Indemnifiable Event occurs or at the time Expenses are incurred by Indemnitee;
     (c) The fullest benefits allowable under Irish or Bermuda law, as applicable, in effect at the date hereof or as the same may be amended to the extent that such benefits are increased thereby;
     (d) The fullest benefits allowable under the law of the jurisdiction under which Cooper Ltd. exists at the time the Indemnifiable Event occurs or at the time Expenses are incurred by the Indemnitee; and
     (e) Such other benefits as are or may be otherwise available to Indemnitee pursuant to this Deed, any other agreement or otherwise.
     The parties intend that a combination of two or more of the benefits referred to in (a) through (e) shall be available to Indemnitee to the extent that the document or law providing for such benefits does not require that the benefits provided therein be exclusive of other benefits. The Company and Cooper Ltd. hereby undertake to use their best efforts to assist Indemnitee, in all proper and legal ways, to obtain all such benefits to which Indemnitee is entitled.
     7. The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall also be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may now or hereafter have under policies of insurance maintained by the Company or otherwise. To the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies, in accordance with its or their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company director, secretary, executive or representative.
Liability Insurance.
     The Company shall seek to maintain insurance coverage in the amount of the present policy limits and with the present scope of coverage for so long as Indemnitee's services are covered hereunder, provided and to the extent that such insurance is available on a basis acceptable to the Company. In the event that such insurance becomes unavailable in the amount of the present policy limits or in the present scope of coverage at premium costs and on other terms acceptable to the Company, then the Company may forego maintenance of all or a portion of such insurance coverage. However, in the event of any reduction in (or cancellation of) such insurance coverage (whether voluntary or involuntary), the Company shall, and hereby agrees to, stand as a self-insurer with respect to the coverage, or portion thereof, not retained, and shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, indemnify the Indemnitee against any loss arising out of the reduction in or cancellation of such insurance coverage.
 
     8. As collateral security for its obligations hereunder (including specifically its indemnity obligations (other than Judgments) and other obligations pursuant to Sections 2, 6 and 7) and under similar agreements with other directors, secretaries, executives and representatives, in the event of a Change in Control, Cooper Ltd. shall dedicate and maintain, for a period of five years following the Change of Control, an escrow account in the aggregate of TEN MILLION DOLLARS (US$10,000,000) by depositing assets or bank letters of credit in escrow or reserving lines of credit that may be drawn down by an escrow agent in said amount (the "Escrow Reserve"). Cooper Ltd. shall promptly following establishment of the Escrow Reserve provide Indemnitee with a true and complete copy of the agreement relating to the establishment and operation of the Escrow Reserve, together with such additional documentation or information with respect to the Escrow Reserve as Indemnitee may from time to time reasonably request. Cooper Ltd. shall promptly following establishment of the Escrow Reserve deliver an executed copy of this Deed to the escrow agent for the Escrow Reserve to evidence to that agent that Indemnitee is a beneficiary of that Escrow Reserve and shall deliver to Indemnitee the escrow agent's signed receipt evidencing that delivery.
Escrow Fund.
     9. . No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company, Cooper Ltd. or any of their respective affiliates against Indemnitee, Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual of such cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company, Cooper Ltd. or any of their respective affiliates shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of legal action within such two-year period; provided, however, that if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action such shorter period shall govern.
Period of Limitations
     10. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Deed shall be binding unless executed in writing by each of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Deed shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions thereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Amendments, Etc.
     11. In the event of payment under this Deed, the Company or Cooper Ltd., as applicable, shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company or Cooper Ltd. as applicable, effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation.
     12. . Neither the Company nor Cooper Ltd. shall be liable under this Deed to make any payment in connection with any Claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
No Duplication of Payments
     13. This Deed shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, including any direct or
Binding Effect, Etc.
 
indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or Cooper Ltd., as applicable, spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. This Deed shall continue in effect regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as a director, secretary, executive or representative of the Company or of any other enterprise at the Company's request.
     14. The provisions of this Deed shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability.
     15. . This Deed shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of Ireland applicable to contracts made and to be performed in Ireland without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of this Deed, the Indemnitee, Company and Cooper Ltd. submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of state and federal courts sitting in the city of Houston, Texas.
Governing Law
     16. In the event a Claim results in a Judgment in Indemnitee's favor or otherwise is disposed of in a manner that allows the Company to indemnify Indemnitee in connection with such Claim under the Company's articles of association as then in effect, the Company will provide such indemnification to Indemnitee and will reimburse Cooper Ltd. for any indemnification or Expense Advance previously made by Cooper Ltd. in connection with such Claim. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed (other than the preceding sentence and Section 2(e)), the Company shall not have any obligation under this Deed to provide indemnification or Expense Advance to Indemnitee.
Obligations of the Company.
     17. . This Deed shall supersede any prior indemnification agreements and/or arrangements between Cooper Ltd. and the Indemnitee.
Prior Agreements
 
IN WITNESS of which this document has been executed and delivered as a deed this ___day of , 20_.
                    
 

Exhibit 10.2
     DEED OF INDEMNIFICATION (this "Deed") by and among Cooper Industries plc, an Irish public limited company (the "Company"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Ltd.") and (the "Indemnitee").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, Cooper Ltd. has effected a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") pursuant to which the holders of Class A common shares of Cooper Ltd. (other than subsidiaries of Cooper Ltd. that held Class A common shares) became shareholders of the Company, and Cooper Ltd. became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company;
     WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company to retain and attract as executives and representatives the most capable persons available;
     WHEREAS, Indemnitee is an executive or representative of the Company, but is not a director or secretary of the Company;
     WHEREAS, the articles of association of the Company provide that the indemnification provided therein shall not be exclusive;
     WHEREAS, in recognition of the Indemnitee's need for protection against personal liability in order to enhance Indemnitee's continued service to the Company in an effective manner, the Company wishes to provide in this Deed for the indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the full extent permitted by law and as set forth in this Deed, and, to the extent insurance is maintained, for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policies;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of Indemnitee continuing to serve the Company directly or, at its request, with another enterprise, and intending to be legally bound hereby, this DEED PROVIDES as follows:
     1. 
Certain Definitions:
     (a) : shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 15% or more of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities without the prior approval of the Company's Board of Directors, or (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board
Change in Control
 
of Directors of the Company and any new director whose election by such Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement which would result in the Voting Securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or scheme of arrangement, or (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's assets. For purposes of determining whether clause (ii) above has been complied with, the directors of Cooper Ltd. on the effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement shall be included in the determination of who the directors of the Company were during the relevant two year period until the second anniversary of the effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement.
     (b) any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, whether conducted by the Company or any other party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other.
Claim:
     (c) : include attorneys' (and other legal advisors') fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in (including on appeal) or preparing to defend, be a witness in or participate in, any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing).
Expenses
     (d) include judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement that are paid or payable in connection with any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing).
Judgments:
     (e) : any event or occurrence related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was an executive or representative of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company in accordance with the Company's "Code of Ethics and Business Conduct," as a director, secretary, trustee, executive, employee, agent or representative of another corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for profit, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or prior to the Transaction Time (as defined in the Scheme of Arrangement) was a director, secretary, executive or representative of Cooper Ltd., or prior to the Transaction Time was serving at the request of Cooper Ltd. in accordance with Cooper Ltd.'s "Code of Ethics and Business Conduct," as a director, secretary, trustee, executive, employee, agent or representative of another corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for profit, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity, except for any actions by Indemnitee determined by a court to constitute fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duties to the Company or, prior to the Transaction Time,
Indemnifiable Event
 
to Cooper Ltd.
     (f) any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the Company's Board of Directors or any other person or body appointed by such Board (including the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 3) who is not a party to the particular Claim for which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification.
Reviewing Party:
     (g) : any securities of the Company that vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Securities
     2. 
Scope of Indemnification
     (a) . In the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Claim by reason of (or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against any and all Expenses and Judgments arising from or relating to such Claim. Except as otherwise provided in Section 2(b), such indemnification shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than thirty (30) days, after written demand therefor is presented to the Company by or on behalf of the Indemnitee.
Indemnification of Judgments and Expenses
     (b) Any and all Expenses indemnifiable under Sections 2(a) and 2(c) shall, if so requested by the Indemnitee, be paid by the Company promptly as they are incurred by Indemnitee (any such payment of expenses by the Company is hereinafter referred to as an "Expense Advance"). Indemnitee shall be obligated, and hereby agrees, to repay the amount of Expenses so paid only to the extent that Indemnitee shall have been adjudged by the High Court of Ireland or the court in which such action or suit was brought to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his or her duty to the Company or, prior to the Transaction Time, to Cooper Ltd. Indemnitee hereby further agrees to reasonably cooperate with the Company and Cooper Ltd. concerning any Claim.
Indemnification and Advance Payment of Expenses.
     (c) . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against any and all expenses (including attorneys' and other legal advisors' fees) that are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against or action brought by Indemnitee for (i) indemnification of Expenses or Judgments or advance payment of Expenses by Cooper Ltd. or the Company, whether under this Deed or under any other agreement, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws, statute or rule of law now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events and/or (ii) recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policy or policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advance Expense payment or insurance recovery, as the case may be.
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
     (d) . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Deed to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Judgments and Expenses arising from or relating to a Claim but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnity
     (e) Notwithstanding any other
Indemnification of Successful Defense Expenses.
 
provision of this Deed, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims relating in whole or in part to an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the extent permitted by applicable law by the Company and by Cooper Ltd. against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
     3. 
Reviewing Party Determinations.
     (a) The Reviewing Party, in its discretion, may review the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments under this Deed. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, the obligations of the Company under Section 2(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 4 hereof is involved) that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law; provided, however, that if Indemnitee has commenced, or thereafter commences, legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) and any such determination by the Reviewing Party shall be modified, to the extent necessary, to conform to such final judicial determination.
General Rules.
     (b) If there has not been a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Company as soon as practicable after notice of a claim for indemnification. If there has been such a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be the special, independent counsel referred to in Section 4 hereof.
Selection of Reviewing Party.
     (c) If there has been no determination by the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee substantially would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or in part under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any court having subject matter jurisdiction thereof seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, and the Company and Cooper Ltd. hereby consent to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding. Any determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, Cooper Ltd. and Indemnitee.
Judicial Review.
     (d) . In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party pursuant to Section 3(a), or by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to Section 3(c) or otherwise, as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, the burden of proof shall be on the Company and/or Cooper Ltd., as applicable, to establish by clear and convincing evidence that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
Burden of Proof
     4. . The Company and Cooper Ltd. agree that if there is a Change in Control of the Company then with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments under this Deed or under any other agreement, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws, statute or rule of law now or hereafter in effect
Change in Control
 
relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events, the Company and Cooper Ltd. shall seek legal advice only from special, independent counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), and who has not otherwise performed services for the Company, Cooper Ltd. or Indemnitee within the last five years (other than in connection with such matters). Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company, Cooper Ltd. and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent the Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the special, independent counsel referred to above and to indemnify fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' and other legal advisors' fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Deed or its engagement pursuant hereto.
     5. . For purposes of this Deed, the termination of any claim, action, suit or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of , or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee failed to meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law. In addition, neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have made a determination as to whether Indemnitee has met any particular standard of conduct or had any particular belief, nor an actual determination by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee has not met such standard of conduct or did not have such belief, prior to the commencement of legal proceedings by Indemnitee to secure a judicial determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law shall be a defense to Indemnitee's claim or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.
No Presumption
nolo contendere
     6. The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may now or hereafter have to indemnification by the Company or Cooper Ltd. More specifically, the Parties intend that Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification to the maximum extent permitted by any or all of the following:
Non-exclusivity.
     (a) The fullest benefits provided by the Company's articles of association and Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws in effect on the date hereof, a copy of the relevant portions of which are attached hereto as Exhibit I;
     (b) The fullest benefits provided by the articles of association or their equivalent of the Company and the Bye-laws or their equivalent of Cooper Ltd. in effect at the time the Indemnifiable Event occurs or at the time Expenses are incurred by Indemnitee;
     (c) The fullest benefits allowable under Irish or Bermuda law, as applicable, in effect at the date hereof or as the same may be amended to the extent that such benefits are increased thereby;
     (d) The fullest benefits allowable under the law of the jurisdiction under which the Company exists at the time the Indemnifiable Event occurs or at the time Expenses are incurred by the Indemnitee; and
     (e) Such other benefits as are or may be otherwise available to Indemnitee pursuant to this Deed, any other agreement or otherwise.
 
     The parties intend that a combination of two or more of the benefits referred to in (a) through (e) shall be available to Indemnitee to the extent that the document or law providing for such benefits does not require that the benefits provided therein be exclusive of other benefits. The Company and Cooper Ltd. hereby undertake to use their best efforts to assist Indemnitee, in all proper and legal ways, to obtain all such benefits to which Indemnitee is entitled.
     7. The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall also be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may now or hereafter have under policies of insurance maintained by the Company or otherwise. To the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies, in accordance with its or their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company executive or representative. The Company shall seek to maintain insurance coverage in the amount of the present policy limits and with the present scope of coverage for so long as Indemnitee's services are covered hereunder, provided and to the extent that such insurance is available on a basis acceptable to the Company. In the event that such insurance becomes unavailable in the amount of the present policy limits or in the present scope of coverage at premium costs and on other terms acceptable to the Company, then the Company may forego maintenance of all or a portion of such insurance coverage. However, in the event of any reduction in (or cancellation of) such insurance coverage (whether voluntary or involuntary), the Company shall, and hereby agrees to, stand as a self-insurer with respect to the coverage, or portion thereof, not retained, and shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, indemnify the Indemnitee against any loss arising out of the reduction in or cancellation of such insurance coverage.
Liability Insurance.
     8. As collateral security for its obligations hereunder (including specifically its indemnity obligations (other than Judgments) and other obligations pursuant to Sections 2, 6 and 7) and under similar agreements with other executives and representatives, in the event of a Change in Control, the Company shall dedicate and maintain, for a period of five years following the Change of Control, an escrow account in the aggregate of TEN MILLION DOLLARS (US$10,000,000) by depositing assets or bank letters of credit in escrow or reserving lines of credit that may be drawn down by an escrow agent in said amount (the "Escrow Reserve"). The Company shall promptly following establishment of the Escrow Reserve provide Indemnitee with a true and complete copy of the agreement relating to the establishment and operation of the Escrow Reserve, together with such additional documentation or information with respect to the Escrow Reserve as Indemnitee may from time to time reasonably request. The Company shall promptly following establishment of the Escrow Reserve deliver an executed copy of this Deed to the escrow agent for the Escrow Reserve to evidence to that agent that Indemnitee is a beneficiary of that Escrow Reserve and shall deliver to Indemnitee the escrow agent's signed receipt evidencing that delivery.
Escrow Fund.
     9. . No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company, Cooper Ltd. or any of their respective affiliates against Indemnitee, Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual of such cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company, Cooper Ltd. or any of their respective affiliates shall be extinguished and
Period of Limitations
 
deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of legal action within such two-year period; provided, however, that if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action such shorter period shall govern.
     10. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Deed shall be binding unless executed in writing by each of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Deed shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions thereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Amendments, Etc.
     11. In the event of payment under this Deed, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation.
     12. . The Company shall not be liable under this Deed to make any payment in connection with any Claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, the Company's articles of association, Cooper Ltd.'s Bye-laws or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
No Duplication of Payments
     13. This Deed shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or Cooper Ltd., as applicable, spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. This Deed shall continue in effect regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as an executive or representative of the Company or of any other enterprise at the Company's request.
Binding Effect, Etc.
     14. The provisions of this Deed shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability.
     15. . This Deed shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of Irelandapplicable to contracts made and to be performed in Ireland without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of this Deed, the Indemnitee, Company and Cooper Ltd. submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of state and federal courts sitting in the city of Houston, Texas.
Governing Law
     16. . This Deed shall supersede any prior indemnification agreements and/or arrangements between Cooper Ltd. and the Indemnitee.
Prior Agreements
 
     IN WITNESS of which this document has been executed and delivered as a deed this ___day of , 20___.
                    
 

Exhibit 10.3
1.1 The purpose of this Directors' Stock Plan (the "Plan") is to align more closely the interests of the nonemployee directors of Cooper Industries plc (the "Company") with the interests of the Company's shareholders and to attract, motivate and retain experienced and knowledgeable directors. Accordingly, the Company will distribute shares, or restricted stock units exchangeable for shares, of Common Stock of the Company to nonemployee directors on the terms and conditions set forth in this Plan.
1.2 The total number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan is 800,000 shares in the aggregate (adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split completed in March 2007) previously approved by the shareholders of the Company, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10. Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares held by any of the Company's subsidiaries, as the Company may determine from time to time. Any shares that have been subject to restricted stock units that do not vest shall again be available for exchange of restricted stock units.
 
3.1 This Plan shall be, to the maximum extent possible, self-effectuating. This Plan shall be construed, interpreted and, to the extent required, administered by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board to act on its behalf under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Participant shall participate in any decision relating solely to his or her benefits. Subject to the foregoing, the Board may resolve any questions and make all other determinations and adjustments required by this Plan, maintain all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan, and provide forms and procedures to facilitate the implementation of this Plan.
 
3.2 Any determination of the Board or committee made in good faith shall be conclusive. In performing its duties, the Board or the committee shall be entitled to rely on public records and on information, opinions, reports or statements prepared or presented by officers or employees of the Company or other experts believed to be reliable and competent. The Board or the committee may delegate ministerial, bookkeeping and other nondiscretionary functions to individuals who are officers or employees of the Company.
4.1 Each Participant shall receive annually on the Grant Date an award of Common Stock (a "Stock Award") and Restricted Stock Units (a "Restricted Stock Award") with an aggregate Fair Market Value of $175,000, delivered in the following proportion: the number of shares of Common Stock representing the Stock Award shall have a Fair Market Value of $58,333 and the number of shares representing the Restricted Stock Award shall have a Fair Market Value of $116,667. If the Stock Award is not subject to a Deferral Election, cash shall be distributed to the Participant in lieu of fractional shares. The Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award are for services to be provided by the Participant as a Director from the Grant Date until the next Annual Meeting of the Shareholders. Any Participant who is newly elected or appointed to the Board after the Grant Date shall receive, on the first business day of the first quarter following his or her election or appointment as a director, a pro rata award for the year he or she is elected or appointed. For example, if the Company has five regular Board meetings during the year, the pro rata award to a newly elected or appointed Participant would be as follows:
(a) if elected or appointed at or before the first regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $140,000; or
(b) if elected or appointed at or before the second regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $105,000; or
(c) if elected or appointed at or before the third regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $70,000; or
(d) if elected or appointed at or before the fourth regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $35,000.
A Participant shall not be required to make any payment for any shares or Restricted Stock Units delivered under this Section 4, other than services rendered as a director. Upon delivery of shares of Common Stock, the recipient shall have the entire beneficial ownership interest in, and all rights and privileges of an owner as to those shares, including the right to vote the shares and to receive dividends thereon.
4.2. Any shares issued for a Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award granted pursuant to the Plan will be paid up in consideration of the receipt by the Company prior to, or simultaneously with, the issue of the shares of cash at least equal to the nominal value of
 
such shares and, when shares are issued under the Plan without the payment of cash consideration by the Participant or permitted successors and assigns, then such shares shall be paid up by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
5.1 On or prior to the December 31 preceding the Grant Date, each Participant may make an election to defer the receipt (a "Deferral Election") of all or any percentage of the shares of Common Stock otherwise payable to such Participant pursuant to Section 4 hereof. Any Deferral Election shall be in writing on a Company-approved form, shall specify the percentage of shares to be deferred, and shall be irrevocable for the Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award for which the Deferral Election is made, subject to Sections 5.3 and 5.4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Participant who is newly elected or appointed to the Board after the Grant Date may make the election under this Section 5, within thirty (30) days of election or appointment to the Board, with respect to the percentage of the pro-rata Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award that is to be deferred; the Participant has not previously been eligible to participate in the Plan or in any other nonqualified account balance plan of the Company or of any Affiliate that is required to be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A. Any Deferral Election made by a Participant shall remain in effect for future Grant Dates unless changed by the Participant prior to the expiration of time for making such Deferral Election. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no Deferral Election may be made with respect to any Stock Award with a Grant Date after January 2, 2009.
st
provided that
5.2 At the time of making a Deferral Election, a Participant shall elect the time and form of payment. The date for the payment, or commencement of payment, shall be a specified calendar year. Subject to any limitations imposed by the Committee and/or Section 409A, the specified calendar year may be during the Participant's service as a director; the earlier or later of the calendar year in which a Participant incurs a Separation from Service or attains a specified age; or the earliest of the Participant's death, Separation from Service, a specified calendar year, or a Change in Control. The form of the payment shall be either a lump sum or a series of substantially equal annual installments over a period not to exceed ten (10) years.
5.3 A Participant may change an initial election in order to delay payment or to change the form of payment if the following conditions are met: (i) such election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made; (ii) the payment with respect to which such election is made is deferred for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise be made; and (iii) any election for a "specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule)," within the meaning of Section 409A, may not be made less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment. To the extent permitted under Section 409A, payments previously elected as installments shall be treated as a single payment.
5.4 On or before December 31, 2008, a Participant may make an election to change the time and form of payment of that portion of his Deferred Share Account credited for shares that were deferred for calendar years 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008; :
provided that
 
     (i) The requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no shares subject to the election shall otherwise be payable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any shares to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in such year; and
     (ii) The special election shall be subject to Section 5.2 of this Plan.
5.5 The Company shall credit to an account (a "Deferred Share Account") maintained on behalf of a Participant, as of the date on which the shares would otherwise be transferred hereunder, notional shares for the shares of Common Stock deferred ("Deferred Shares"). Deferred Shares shall be credited with an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on an equal number of outstanding shares of Common Stock ("Dividend Equivalents"). Dividend Equivalents shall be credited (i) as of the payment date of such dividends, and (ii) only with respect to Deferred Shares credited to such Participant prior to the record date of the dividend. When credited, Dividend Equivalents shall be converted into an additional number of Deferred Shares as of the payment date of the dividend, based on the Fair Market Value on such payment date. Such Deferred Shares shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as any other Deferred Shares under the Plan.
5.6 Deferred Shares will be distributed in whole shares of Common Stock and cash in lieu of fractional shares. Unless otherwise provided in the Participant's Deferral Election, payments shall be made or begin on March 1 of the calendar year specified by the Participant in his Deferral Election, and if installments are elected and effective, the second installment and any other subsequent installments shall be paid on each subsequent March 1 for the period certain. If the Deferred Shares are payable in installments, the amount of each installment shall be equal to a fraction of the amount of the Deferred Shares remaining to be paid with respect to the applicable Deferral Election, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of installments remaining to be paid.
5.7 Except as provided in Section 11 and as permitted under Section 409A, no acceleration of the time or form of payment of a Deferred Share Account, or any portion thereof, shall be permitted. In the event of the death of a Participant, the undistributed balance of his Deferred Share Account shall be distributed upon his death to his beneficiary in one lump sum within ninety (90) days of his death, provided that, if such ninety-day period begins in one taxable year and ends in another taxable year, neither Participant's estate nor any beneficiary of Participant's Deferred Share Account may choose in which taxable year such lump sum will be paid. The beneficiary or beneficiaries shall be designated in writing by the Participant in the form and manner specified by the Committee; if no designation has been made, the estate of the Participant shall be his beneficiary.
6.1 Each Restricted Stock Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock upon the Participant ceasing to serve on the Board for any reason ("Restricted Stock Unit"). A Participant cannot exchange his or her Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock prior to such Participant ceasing to serve on the Board. The Company shall maintain on behalf of each Participant an account and credit to the account any Restricted
 
Stock Units granted to such Participant. Restricted Stock Units shall remain unvested while a Participant continues to serve on the Board. When a Participant ceases his or her service on the Board for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest as of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service.
6.2 Shares issued in exchange for Restricted Stock Units will be distributed in whole shares and cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to the terms of the Deferral Election made by a Participant. In the absence of such an election, all shares issuable upon the exchange of Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to a Participant in a lump sum on the March 1 following the calendar year in which the Participant has a Separation from Service.
st
11.1 The option exercise price shall be the Fair Market Value on the Grant Date.
11.2 The option shall become fully exercisable on the third anniversary of the Grant Date. If, prior to the third anniversary of the Grant Date, the Participant ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason other than death or retirement in accordance with the Board's retirement policy, the option rights shall terminate immediately. If the Participant dies while serving as a Director of the Company or retires in accordance with the Board's retirement policy, all outstanding options shall become fully exercisable immediately.
11.3 The duration of stock options shall be 10 years from the Grant Date.
 
11.4 Options may be exercised in whole or in part by delivering to the Company at its principal executive office (directed to the attention of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary) a written notice, signed by the Participant or by the Participant's executor, administrator or a person entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to exercise the option, as the case may be, of the election to exercise the option and stating the number of shares in respect of which it is then being exercised. The option shall be deemed exercised as of the date the Company receives such notice. Payment of the exercise price shall be made in cash or with shares of Common Stock or a combination of both delivered at the time that an option, or any part thereof, is exercised.
No shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of an option until full payment therefor is received. Common Stock used as payment shall have been owned by the Participant not less than six months preceding the date the option is exercised and shall be valued at its Fair Market Value.
11.5 An option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's death, by the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate or by the person who acquired the right to exercise such option by bequest or inheritance. After the Participant ceases to be a member of the Board, vested options may be exercised for the remaining term of the option or for a period of five years, whichever is less.
11.6 An option shall not be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
     (i) The requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no shares subject to the election shall otherwise be payable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any shares to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in such year; and
     (ii) The special election shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 7 of the Plan.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
     The Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan ("Plan") is a bonus plan for senior executives designed to link executive compensation to achievement of short-term business objectives. The Plan was last approved by shareholders on April 25, 2006, when the maximum annual Award was increased from $2.5 million to $3 million and the Plan was extended until March 11, 2011. The Plan was also amended to require proportionate adjustments to Shares upon certain corporate transactions.
     Plan Awards are subject to unilateral reduction or elimination by the Committee after the Performance Period and are paid in the calendar year in which Participants obtain a "legally binding right" to Awards. Thus, Awards paid in the normal course (., in the absence of voluntary deferral elections by Participants) should not constitute "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A. Similarly, Plan amendments that apply solely to annual bonus opportunity paid in the normal course should not result in "material modifications" that subject pre-2004 deferrals under the Plan to Section 409A.
i.e
     Awards paid in Shares have historically been deferred under the terms of this Plan, rather than under the Cooper Industries Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan. Plan terms applicable to Share deferrals have not been amended since October 3, 2004, and those Plan terms (the "Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms") have been frozen and shall not be modified except as permitted under Section 409A, so as to preserve the grandfathered status of pre-2004 Share deferrals and related earnings thereunder. Deferrals retained and administered under the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms are those employee Share deferrals that were earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, and income attributable to such grandfathered deferrals. The terms of the Plan applicable to Share deferrals are being deleted effective January 1, 2005 and no such deferrals are permitted after such date.
     The Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan is intended to provide Cooper Industries, Ltd. ("the Company") a means by which it can engender and sustain a sense of personal commitment on the part of its Senior Executive Officers in the continued growth, development, and financial success of the Company and encourage them to remain with and devote their best efforts to the business of the Company, thereby advancing the interests of the Company and its shareholders. Accordingly, the Company may award to Senior
 
Executive Officers annual incentive compensation on the terms and conditions established herein.
     2.1 "Affiliates" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
     2.2 "Annual Incentive Award" or "Award" means the compensation payable in cash or Shares granted under the Plan to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions, and limitations established by the Committee and the Plan.
     2.3 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     2.4 "Change in Control" shall mean a change in control in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A.
     2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
     2.6 "Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan; the Committee shall consist of three or more persons each of whom is an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) and a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
provided that
     2.7 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended from time to time.
     2.8 "Participant" means a Senior Executive Officer of the Company who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
     2.9 "Performance Goals" shall be defined as the performance criterion or criteria established by the Committee, pursuant to Section V hereof, for the purpose of determining Awards under the Plan.
     2.10 "Performance Period" means the consecutive 12 month period that constitutes the Company's fiscal year.
     2.11 "Plan" means the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan (as amended and restated February 13, 2006, and as further amended, effective January 1, 2005, for compliance with Section 409A).
 
     2.12 "Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms" shall mean the terms of the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan that relate to deferral of Share Awards, as in effect on October 3, 2004.
     2.13 "Section 162(m)" means Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
     2.14 "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.15 "Senior Executive Officer" means the Chairman; Chief Executive Officer; President; Chief Operating Officer; any Executive Vice President; any Senior Vice President; or any other senior officer reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer who is designated as a Participant in the Plan.
     3.1 The overall administration of the Plan, including the final determination of Awards to each Participant, is vested in the Committee.
     3.2 Determinations of the Committee in administering the Plan shall be final and binding upon all Participants.
     Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Senior Executive Officers. Participants will be selected for participation annually by the Committee not later than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period. The Committee may withdraw its approval for participation in the Plan for a Participant at any time. In the event of such withdrawal, such Participant shall cease to be a Participant as of the date designated by the Committee and the individual shall be notified of such withdrawal as soon as practicable following such action. Further, such individual shall cease to have any right to an Award for the Performance Period in which such withdrawal is effective; , that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize a prorated award based on the number of full months of participation prior to the effective date of such withdrawal and the Company's performance during such period.
provided, however
     5.1 Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee not later than 90 days after commencement of the Performance Period relating to a specific Award. The Performance Goals may be identical for all Participants or, at the discretion of the Committee, may be different to reflect more appropriate measures of individual performance. The criterion or criteria used in establishing Performance Goals may, at the discretion of the Committee, include one or any combination of the following: (i) the Company's return on equity, assets, capital or investment; (ii) pre-tax or after-tax profit levels expressed in absolute dollars or earnings per Share of the Company; or (iii) cash flow or similar measure. The Performance Goals established
 
by the Committee shall include a threshold level of performance below which no Award will be payable and a maximum Award opportunity for each Senior Executive Officer. The determination of attainment of the Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certified in writing by the Committee.
     5.2 The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Goals in recognition of: (i) extraordinary or non-recurring items, (ii) changes in tax laws, (iii) changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in accounting policies, (iv) charges related to restructured or discontinued operations, (v) restatement of prior period financial results, and (vi) any other unusual, non-recurring gain or loss that is separately identified and quantified in the Company's financial statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, modify the performance results upon which Awards are based under the Plan, to offset any unintended result(s) arising from events not anticipated when the Performance Goals were established, such adjustment is permitted by Section 162(m).
provided that
     6.1 Awards under the Plan shall be paid in cash.
     6.2 At the first meeting of the Committee after the expiration of the Performance Period, the Committee shall review the prior year's performance in relation to the Performance Goals and determine the level of achievement of the Performance Goals. Payment of Annual Incentive Awards to Participants under the Plan shall occur only after the Committee has certified in writing that the Performance Goals have been achieved for the relevant Performance Period; payment shall occur on or before March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the Performance Period. Notwithstanding the attainment of Performance Goals for the Company as a whole, Awards for individual Participants under the Plan may be denied or adjusted by the Committee, in its sole judgment, based on its assessment of the Participant's performance. However, no upward adjustment may be made to an Award for a Participant if Section 162(m) would limit the deduction the Company may claim for that Participant's compensation. Further, the total Award, as adjusted, shall not exceed the maximum Award opportunity. The maximum Annual Incentive Award that may be granted to a Senior Executive Officer under the Plan for any Performance Period shall be $3.0 million.
provided that
     The Committee may permit Participants to elect to defer receipt of all or a portion of the Annual Incentive Award pursuant to the terms of the Company's Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan.
     The Company shall have the right to deduct from any payment to be made pursuant to the Plan the amount of any taxes required by law.
 
     No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the granting of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries expressly reserve the right at any time to terminate the employment of any Participant free from any liability under the Plan; except that a Participant, who meets or exceeds the Performance Goals for the Performance Period and was actively employed for the full term of the Performance Period, will be eligible for an Award even though the Participant is not an active employee of the Company at the time the Committee grants Awards under the Plan.
     10.1 . Immediately upon a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards shall be deemed earned at the Target Performance Goal level with respect to the portion of such Award equal to the amount of such Target Performance Goal level Award for the Participant multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months elapsed in the year of the Change in Control (with any partial month counted as a full month for such purpose) and the denominator of which is 12 (such Award to be called the "Earned Pro Rata Award").
Vesting
     10.2 . In the absence of a valid deferral of an Award pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms or the Cooper Industries Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan, the Company shall, within ten (10) days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, make, or cause to be made, a lump sum cash payment to the Participant equal to the Earned Pro Rata Award.
Payment
     The Board may amend, modify, suspend or terminate (individually or in the aggregate, a "Change") this Plan for any purpose except that: (i) no Change shall be effective prior to approval by the Company's shareholders to the extent that such approval is then required pursuant to Section 162(m) or otherwise required as a matter of law; and (ii) no Change to the Plan shall be effective that would (a) increase the maximum amount that can be paid to a Participant under the Plan, (b) change the performance criterion or criteria set forth in Section V hereof for the payment of Awards or (c) modify the eligibility requirements for Participants in the Plan unless first approved by the Company's shareholders.
     The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any actions taken or relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and applicable Federal law.
 
     Unless otherwise specifically provided to the contrary in the relevant plan, program, or practice, Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits under any other Company benefit plan, program, or practice or any severance policy of the Company. Further, the Company may adopt other compensation programs, plans, or arrangements for employees below the level of Senior Executive Officer as it deems necessary and appropriate.
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator, or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
     The shareholders of the Company approved the extension of the term of the Plan until March 1, 2011. After termination of the Plan, no future Awards may be granted but previously outstanding Awards shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
     The Plan is designed to comply with Section 162(m) and, to the extent applicable, Section 409A, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner consistent with that intent.

Exhibit 10.6
     WHEREAS, on September 8, 2009, a Scheme of Arrangement under Bermuda law became effective pursuant to which the public Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, became ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries plc, a company established in Ireland, and Cooper Industries, Ltd. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc (the "Transaction"); and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc assumed the obligations of Cooper Industries, Ltd. under Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan");
     NOW, THEREFORE, effective September 8, 2009, the Plan is amended to provide that Cooper Industries plc is substituted for Cooper Industries, Ltd. as the "Company" under the Plan and that ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc will be issued to Participants to satisfy any distributions of employee share deferrals pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms. To the extent that ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc will be issued to Participants to satisfy any distributions of employee share deferrals pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms, such shares will be paid up in consideration of receipt by the Company prior to, or simultaneously with, the issue of the shares of cash at least equal to the nominal value of such shares and, when shares are issued under the Plan without the payment of cash consideration by the Participant or permitted successors and assigns, then such shares shall be paid up by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.

Exhibit 10.7
     The Cooper Industries Stock Incentive Plan is intended to provide Cooper US, Inc. (the "Company") and its affiliates a means by which such companies can engender and sustain a sense of proprietorship and personal commitment on the part of the executives, managers and other key employees in the continued growth, development and financial success of the publicly-traded parent, Cooper Industries plc ("CBE") and encourage them to remain with and devote their best efforts to the business of the Company and its affiliates, thereby advancing the interests of the Company, its affiliates and CBE shareholders. Accordingly, the Company may award to certain employees shares of the Common Stock of CBE, on the terms and conditions established herein.
     This amended and restated Stock Incentive Plan, Post-2004 Part, applies only to Awards that were not vested as of December 31, 2004, and is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. All provisions of the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with such intention. All Awards (or portions thereof) that were vested on or prior to December 31, 2004 shall be governed by the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated February 9, 2005.
     2.1 "Affiliate" shall mean any employer, present and future, with which the Company is considered a single employer under Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code.
     2.2 "Award" means any form of Stock Option, Restricted Stock or Performance Share granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish by the Award Agreement or otherwise.
     2.3 "Award Agreement" means a written agreement with respect to an Award between the Company and a Participant establishing the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations applicable to an Award. To the extent an Award Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the Plan shall govern the rights of the Participant thereunder.
     2.4 "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of CBE.
 
     2.5 "Change in Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of CBE, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of CBE, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
     2.6 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
     2.7 "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     2.8 "Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan, provided that the Committee shall consist of three or more persons, each of whom is an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
     2.9 "Common Stock" or "Shares" shall mean the ordinary shares, par value $0.01 a share, of CBE and other such securities of CBE as the Committee may from time to time determine.
     2.10 "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean any right granted pursuant to Section X hereof.
     2.11 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     2.12 "Executive Officer" means an executive officer as defined in Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
     2.13 "Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock, as of any date, means the closing sales price of a share of Common Stock as reported on the Stock Exchange on the applicable date or, if no sales of Common Stock were made on the Stock Exchange on that date, the closing sales price as reported on the Stock Exchange for the preceding day on which sales of Common Stock were made and , in the event of a Change in Control, Fair Market Value shall not be less than the highest price per share actually paid for the Common Stock in connection with the Change in Control of CBE.
further provided that
     2.14 "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section VII hereof that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
     2.15 "Nonstatutory Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section VII hereof that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
     2.16 "Option" shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such prices and during such Period or Periods as the Committee shall determine.
     2.17 "Participant" means an officer or key employee of the Company or its affiliates who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
 
     2.18 "Performance Goals" or "Targets" in respect to Awards of Performance Shares are defined as the performance criterion or criteria established by the Committee, pursuant to Section 9.3 hereof.
     2.19 "Performance Period" shall mean that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Shares are granted, provided that a Performance Period shall be a minimum of one year.
     2.20 "Performance Share" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section IX hereof of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including cash, Shares or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such Performance Goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter, or as a reward to recognize significant personal contributions to Company initiatives under the Cooper Star Program as approved by the Committee.
     2.21 "Plan" shall mean the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, Post-2004 Part, effective January 1, 2005.
     2.22 "Restricted Stock" shall mean any Shares issued pursuant to Section VIII (or any restricted stock units granted pursuant to Section VIII that are valued by reference to a designated number of Shares) and which are subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate, including but not limited to restrictions on transferability, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
     2.23 "Section 162(m)" means Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.24 "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.25 "Separation from Service" shall mean the termination of employment of a Participant with the Company and all Affiliates for any reason other than death; provided, however, that a Company-approved leave of absence shall not be considered a termination of employment if the leave does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the Participant's right to reemployment is provided either by statute or by contract. Whether a Participant has incurred a Separation from Service shall be determined in accordance with Section 409A.
     2.26 "Stock Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE") or, if the Common Stock is no longer included on the NYSE, then such other market price reporting system on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted.
     2.27 "Voting Stock" means securities entitled to vote in an election of Directors of CBE.
 
     3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
     3.2 Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to select the Participants; to determine the type of Awards to be made to Participants; to determine the Shares subject to any Award and the terms, conditions and restrictions relating to any Award; to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award may be settled, cancelled, forfeited, exchanged, or surrendered; to waive or modify any condition applicable to an Award (other than a Performance Share Award to Executive Officers if inconsistent with Section 162(m)); to make adjustments in the performance goals of an Award (i) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting CBE or the financial statements of CBE (with respect to Awards made to Executive Officers, to the extent in accordance with Section 162(m), if applicable) or (ii) in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; to interpret the Plan; to establish, amend or rescind any administrative policies; to determine the terms and provisions of any agreements entered into hereunder; and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry it into effect. The determinations of the Committee in the administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall be final and conclusive: provided, however, that no action shall be taken which will prevent Awards granted under the Plan from meeting the requirements for exemption from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or subsequent comparable statute, as set forth in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or any subsequent comparable rule; and, provided further, that no action shall be taken which will prevent Awards hereunder (i) that are intended to provide "performance-based compensation," within the meaning of Section 162(m), from doing so or (ii) that are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, from doing so.
     3.3 In order to enable Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, or both, to receive Awards under the Plan, the Committee may adopt such amendments, subplans and the like as are necessary or advisable, in the opinion of the Committee, to effectuate the purposes of the Plan.
     3.4 Notwithstanding the powers and authorities of the Committee set forth in this Section III,
 
     Any key employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is eligible to receive one or more Awards under the Plan.
     5.1 There shall be available for Awards granted wholly or partly in Common Stock (including rights or options which may be exercised for or settled in Common Stock) during the term of this Plan since its inception in 1996 an aggregate of 41,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to the adjustments provided for in Section XIV hereof. The 41,000,000 Shares available for Awards consist of 34,000,000 Shares (adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split completed in March 2007) previously approved by the Company and CBE shareholders and 7,000,000 Shares approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting. Of the 7,000,000 Shares approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting, no more than 2,100,000 Shares are available for Restricted Stock and Performance Shares.
     5.2 Shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares, treasury shares, or outstanding CBE ordinary shares held by subsidiaries of CBE, as the Company and CBE may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors and the appropriate officers of CBE shall from time to time take whatever actions are necessary to file required documents with governmental authorities and the Stock Exchange to make shares of Common Stock available for issuance pursuant to Awards. Common Stock related to Awards that are forfeited or otherwise terminated, or expire unexercised, shall immediately become available for Awards hereunder. If an Award is exchanged for cash or other property of comparable value, the Common Stock related to the Award will be deducted from the Shares available for Awards hereunder. Any Shares issued by CBE in respect of the assumption or substitution of outstanding awards from a corporation or other business entity acquired by CBE shall not reduce the number of Shares available for Awards under this Plan. The Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such procedures concerning the counting of shares against the Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate under Rule 16b-3 issued pursuant to the Exchange Act.
     5.3 The number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted under the Plan to any individual who is an Executive Officer shall not exceed the limits set forth below:
     Determinations under the preceding sentence shall be made in a manner that is consistent with Section 162(m).
 
     5.4 Any Shares issued pursuant to the Plan will be paid up in consideration of the receipt by the Company prior to, or simultaneously with, the issue of the Shares of cash at least equal to the nominal value of such Shares, and when Shares are issued under the Plan without the payment of cash consideration by any Participant or permitted successors and assigns, then such Shares shall be paid up by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
     Awards under the Plan may consist of: Stock Options (either Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Restricted Stock, or Performance Shares. Awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Stock may provide the Participant with dividends or Dividend Equivalents and voting rights prior to vesting (whether based on a period of time or based on attainment of specified performance conditions). The terms, conditions and restrictions of each Award shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
     7.1 Awards may be granted in the form of Stock Options. Stock Options may be Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of both, or any particular type of tax-advantaged option authorized by the Code from time to time, and approved by the Committee.
Grants.
     7.2 A Stock Option shall be exercisable in whole or in such installments and at such times and upon such terms as may be determined by the Committee: provided, however, that no Stock Option shall be exercisable more than 10 years after the date of grant thereof. The option exercise price shall be established by the Committee, but such price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value on the date of the Stock Option's grant, subject to adjustment as provided in Section XIV hereof.
Terms and Conditions of Options.
     7.3 Stock Options issued in the form of Incentive Stock Options shall, in addition to being subject to all applicable terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations established by the Committee, comply with Section 422 of the Code. The aggregate Fair Market Value of stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options (granted pursuant to this Plan or any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate) are first exercisable by any Participant during any calendar year may not exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). Incentive Stock Options shall be granted only to key employees of the Company and its "subsidiaries" within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
Restrictions Relating to Incentive Stock Options.
     7.4 Upon exercise, a Participant may pay the option exercise price of a Stock Option in cash or Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares, or such other consideration as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee shall establish appropriate methods for accepting Common Stock and may impose such conditions as it deems appropriate on the use of Common Stock to exercise a Stock Option.
Payment.
 
     7.5 The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreement or otherwise, establish such other terms, conditions or restrictions, if any, on any Stock Option Award, provided they are not inconsistent with the Plan or Section 409A. The Committee may condition the vesting of Stock Options on the achievement of financial performance criteria established by the Committee at the time of grant.
Additional Terms and Conditions.
     8.1 Awards may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock ("Restricted Stock Awards"). Restricted Stock Awards shall be awarded in such numbers and at such times as the Committee shall determine.
Grants.
     8.2 Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such terms, conditions or restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability, requirements of continued employment, individual performance or the financial performance of CBE. The period of vesting and the forfeiture restrictions shall be established by the Committee at the time of grant, provided that the period of vesting shall be at least three years from the date of grant, except as provided in Section XVIII.
Award Restrictions.
     8.3 The Committee may, in its discretion, grant to the Participant to whom such Restricted Stock has been awarded, all or any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, including the right to receive dividends or Dividend Equivalents.
Rights as Shareholders.
     8.4 Any Restricted Stock Award granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee deems appropriate, including, without limitation, book entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates.
Evidence of Award.
     9.1 Awards may be granted in the form of Performance Shares.
Grants.
     9.2 The Committee may grant an Award of Performance Shares to Participants as of the first day of each Performance Period. Performance Goals will be established by the Committee not later than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period relating to the specific Award. At the end of the Performance Period, the Performance Shares shall be converted into Common Stock (or cash or a combination of Common Stock and cash, as determined by the Award Agreement) and distributed to Participants based upon such entitlement. The Committee may also grant Performance Shares as a reward to employees to recognize significant personal contributions to Company initiatives under the Cooper Star Program. Award payment in respect of Performance Shares made in cash rather than the issuance of Common Stock shall not, by reason of such payment in cash, result in additional Shares being available for reissuance pursuant to Section V hereof.
Performance Shares.
 
     9.3 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section IX, Performance Share Awards shall be made to Executive Officers only in compliance with Section 162(m). Performance criteria used to establish Performance Goals for Performance Share Awards granted to Executive Officers must include one or any combination of the following: (i) CBE's return on equity, assets, capital or investment; (ii) pre-tax or after-tax profit levels expressed in earnings per share of CBE or any subsidiary or business segment of CBE; (iii) cash flow or similar measure; (iv) total shareholder return; (v) change in the market price of the Common Stock; (vi) market share; or (vii) debt ratios or similar measures. The Performance Goals established by the Committee for each Performance Share Award will specify achievement targets with respect to each applicable performance criterion (including a threshold level of performance below which no amount will become payable with respect to such Award). To the extent applicable, any such Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Each Award will specify the amount payable, or the formula for determining the amount payable, upon achievement of the various applicable Performance Targets. The Performance Goals established by the Committee may be (but need not be) different for each Performance Period and different Performance Goals may be applicable for Awards to different Executive Officers in the same Performance Period. Payment shall be made with respect to a Performance Share Award to an Executive Officer only after the attainment of the applicable Performance Goals has been certified in writing by the Committee.
Performance Criteria.
     9.4 The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Goals in recognition of: (i) extraordinary or non-recurring items; (ii) changes in tax laws; (iii) changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in accounting policies; (iv) charges related to restructured or discontinued operations; (v) restatement of prior period financial results; and (vi) any other unusual, non-recurring gain or loss that is separately identified and quantified in CBE's financial statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, modify the performance results upon which Awards are based under the Plan, to offset any unintended result(s) arising from events not anticipated when the Performance Goals were established, provided, that such adjustment is permitted by Section 162(m).
Adjustments.
     9.5 The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreement or otherwise, determine the manner of payment of Awards of Performance Shares and other terms, conditions or restrictions, if any, on any Award of Performance Shares, provided they are consistent with the Plan.
Additional Terms and Conditions.
     Upon issuance of Performance Shares earned under the Plan, the Company also shall pay to the Participant an amount equal to the aggregate amount of dividends that the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such earned Performance Shares during the Performance Period. Upon the grant of restricted stock units, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide for the accrual or payment of dividends that the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of the underlying Shares during the vesting period.
 
     The Committee may require or permit Participants to elect to defer the issuance of Shares or cash pursuant to an Award under such administrative policies as it may establish under the Plan, provided that such policies are consistent with the requirements of Section 409A. The Committee also may provide that deferred settlements include the payment or crediting of interest on the deferred amount, or for the payment or crediting of Dividend Equivalents where the deferral amounts are denominated in Shares.
     A Participant shall also elect the time and form of payment of deferred Shares at the time the election to defer Shares is made. A Participant may elect (x) a single lump sum distribution of Shares and cash or (y) a series of substantially equal installments over a period certain of up to three (3) years. The Shares remaining to be distributed shall continue to earn Dividend Equivalents as provided in Section X. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the election shall specify the calendar year in which the distribution of the deferred Shares for that Performance Period shall be made or shall commence. Subject to any limitations imposed by the Committee and/or Section 409A, the specified calendar year may be a calendar year during the Participant's active employment or the earlier or later of the calendar year in which a Participant incurs a Separation from Service or attains a specified age.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or any deferral election filed by a Participant, in the event any Participant defers the issuance of Shares or cash pursuant to an Award of Performance Shares, no payment of such Shares or cash may be made to the Participant before the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service from the Company and any Affiliate (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death).
     Any undistributed Shares credited to a Participant at his death shall be distributed in a lump sum within ninety (90) days of death provided that, if such ninety-day period begins in one taxable year and ends in another taxable year, neither Participant's estate nor any beneficiary of Participant may choose in which taxable year such distribution will be made. A Participant, by written instrument filed with the Committee in such manner and form as it may prescribe, may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive payment of the Participant's deferred Shares in the event of his death. Any such beneficiary designation may be changed from time to time prior to the death of the Participant. If no beneficiary designation is in effect at a Participant's death, payment shall be made to his estate.
     On or before December 31, 2008, a Participant may make an election to change the time and form of payment of any deferred Shares credited for the Performance Periods 2002-2003 through 2008-2010; provided that (i) the requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no Shares subject to the election shall otherwise be distributable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any Shares to be distributed in 2008 that would not otherwise be distributable in such year and (ii) the special election shall be subject to this Section XI.
 
     Upon the termination of employment by a Participant, any unexercised, deferred or unpaid Awards shall be treated as provided in the specific Award Agreement evidencing the Award, except that the Committee may, in its discretion:
     Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Committee shall not have the power to accelerate the payment of any Shares or cash deferred pursuant to Article XI hereunder, nor to amend any Award in any manner, unless such acceleration or amendment is (i) permitted by Section 409A or (ii) consented to by such Participant.
     Awards granted under the Plan shall not be transferable or assignable other than: (i) by will or the laws of descent and distribution; (ii) by gift or other transfer of an Award (other than an Incentive Stock Option unless permitted by the Code) to any trust or estate in which the original Award recipient or such recipient's spouse or other immediate relative has a substantial beneficial interest, or to a spouse or other immediate relative, provided that any such transfer is permitted subject to Rule 16b-3 issued pursuant to the Exchange Act as in effect when such transfer occurs and the Board does not rescind this provision prior to such transfer; or (iii) pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order (as defined by the Code). However, any Award so transferred shall continue to be subject to all the terms and conditions contained in the Award Agreement.
     14.1 The existence of outstanding Awards shall not affect in any manner the right or power of CBE or its shareholders to make or authorize: (i) any adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the capital stock of CBE or its business; (ii) any merger or consolidation of CBE; (iii) any issuance of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stock (whether or not such issue is prior to, on a parity with or junior to the Common Stock); (iv) the dissolution or liquidation of CBE, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business; or (v) any other corporate act or proceeding of any kind, whether or not of a character similar to that of the acts or proceedings enumerated above.
 
     14.2 If there is a change in the number of outstanding Shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split or reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, or exchange of Shares, or similar corporate change, an equitable substitution or proportionate adjustment shall be made to: (i) the aggregate number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan; (ii) the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan; (iii) the Option exercise price per Share; (iv) the number of deferred Shares credited to a Participant's account pursuant to Section XI; and (v) the limit on the number of shares subject to Awards pursuant to Section 5.3 hereof. Any substitution or adjustment of an Award shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
     The Company shall have the right to deduct from any payment to be made pursuant to the Plan the amount of any taxes required by law to be withheld therefrom, or to require a Participant to pay to the Company such amount required to be withheld prior to the issuance or delivery of any shares of Common Stock or the payment of cash under the Plan. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to elect to satisfy such withholding obligation by (i) having the Company retain the number of shares of Common Stock, or (ii) tendering the number of shares of Common Stock, in either case, whose Fair Market Value equals the amount required to be withheld. Any fraction of a share of Common Stock required to satisfy such obligation shall be disregarded and the amount due shall instead be paid in cash, to or by the Participant, as the case may be.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, the Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates evidencing Shares under this Plan prior to: (i) the obtaining of any approval from any governmental agency which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (ii) the listing of such Shares on the Stock Exchange; and (iii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any state or federal law or ruling of any governmental body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.
     No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates expressly reserve the right at any time to terminate the employment of any Participant free from any liability, or any claim under the Plan, except as provided herein or in any Award Agreement entered into hereunder.
 
     18.1 .
Vesting and Deferral
     (i) . Immediately upon a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards shall vest automatically, all forfeiture restrictions shall lapse, and all Performance Share Awards shall be deemed earned at the commendable Performance Goal level.
Vesting
     (ii) . Accounts denominated in cash immediately prior to a Change in Control shall continue to be denominated in cash following a Change in Control. Accounts denominated in Shares immediately prior to a Change in Control shall, following such Change in Control, be denominated in (a) such form of consideration as the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such Shares at the time of such Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control With Consideration and (b) Shares, in the case of a Change in Control Without Consideration.
Deferral
     (iii) "Change in Control With Consideration" shall mean a Change in Control in which Shares are exchanged or surrendered for shares, cash or other property. "Change in Control Without Consideration" shall mean a Change in Control pursuant to which Shares are not exchanged or surrendered for shares, cash or other property.
Definitions.
     18.2 .
Payment and Rollover
     (i) . In the event of a Change in Control, all Deferral Accounts related to Performance Share Awards shall be paid out in cash to a Participant on the date of such Change in Control, with the amount of such cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the Performance Shares held in the Participant's Account.
Payment of Deferral Accounts Relating to Performance Share Awards
     (ii) With respect to outstanding Restricted Stock Awards and Performance Share Awards, the Company shall, within ten (10) days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, (a) issue or cause to be issued, for any Shares covered by such Awards, (i) such form of consideration as the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such Shares at the time of such Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control With Consideration and (ii) Shares, in the case of a Change in Control Without Consideration and (b) make, or cause to be made, a lump sum cash payment to the Participant for any accrued interest and Dividend Equivalents.
Payment of Outstanding Restricted Stock Awards and Performance Share Awards.
     (iii) . With respect to outstanding Stock Options which have vested pursuant to Section 18.1 of the Plan, unless the Committee
Stock Option Rollover or Cash-Out
 
has determined to make an equitable adjustment or substitution of such Stock Options pursuant to Section 14.2 of the Plan as a result of the Change in Control, upon a Change in Control the Company shall cancel such Stock Options and, within 10 days thereafter, the Company shall make or cause to be made a cash payment to each holder thereof in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Stock Option over the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of Shares subject to such Stock Option.
     18.3 It is recognized that under certain circumstances: (a) payments or benefits provided to a Participant might give rise to an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code; and (b) it might be beneficial to a Participant to disclaim some portion of the payment or benefit in order to avoid such "excess parachute payment" and thereby avoid the imposition of an excise tax resulting therefrom; and (c) under such circumstances it would not be to the disadvantage of the Company or CBE to permit the Participant to disclaim any such payment or benefit in order to avoid the "excess parachute payment" and the excise tax resulting therefrom.
     Accordingly, the Participant may, at the Participant's option, exercisable at any time or from time to time, disclaim any entitlement to any portion of the payment or benefits arising under this Plan which would constitute "excess parachute payments," and it shall be the Participant's choice as to which payments or benefits shall be so surrendered, if and to the extent that the Participant exercises such option, so as to avoid "excess parachute payments" , that Participant must first surrender payments or benefits that are payable in the same calendar year as the event giving rise to such "excess parachute payment" and, if additional payments or benefits are surrendered, must then surrender payments or benefits that are payable in the immediately succeeding calendar year and that no payment or benefit that is surrendered shall affect the amount of payment or benefit payable in a subsequent calendar year.
provided, however
provided further
     18.4 The granting of Awards under the Plan shall in no way affect the right of the Company or CBE to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structures or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any portion of its business or assets.
     The Board may amend, modify, suspend or terminate (individually or in the aggregate, a "Change") this Plan for any purpose except that: (i) no Change that would impair the rights of any Participant under any Award previously granted to such Participant shall be made without such Participant's consent, (ii) no Change shall be effective prior to approval by CBE's shareholders to the extent such approval is required: (a) pursuant to Rule 16b-3 in order to preserve the applicability of any exemption provided by such rule to any Award then outstanding (unless the holder of such Award consents); (b) pursuant to Section 162(m); or (c) otherwise required by applicable legal requirements including applicable requirements of the Stock Exchange on which CBE is listed and (iii) following a Change in Control, the terms and
 
conditions of deferrals under the Plan may not be changed to the detriment of any Participant without such Participant's written consent.
     The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any actions taken or relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and applicable Federal law.
     Except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder until he or she becomes the holder of record.
     Unless otherwise specifically provided to the contrary in the relevant plan, program or practice, settlements of Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits from any Company or CBE benefit plan, program or practice or any severance pay law of any country. Further, the Company and CBE may adopt other compensation programs, plans or arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary.
     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person. To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of an Award granted under the Plan, such rights (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) shall be no greater than the rights of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
     The cash proceeds received by the Company from the issuance of Shares pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall constitute general funds of the Company.
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
 
     This Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by the Board of Directors of CBE. Subject to earlier termination pursuant to Section XIX, the Plan shall continue in effect through November 7, 2015. After termination of the Plan, no future Awards may be granted but previously granted Awards shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
     The Plan as applicable to certain employees is designed and intended to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, with Section 162(m), and with Section 409A, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply with respect to such employees. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, although the Board, the Committee, and any designee of the Board or Committee shall use their best efforts to avoid the imposition of taxation, penalties, and interest under Section 409A, the tax treatment of Participant deferrals under the Plan shall not be, and is not, warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, the Board, the Committee, nor any of their designees shall be held liable for any taxes, penalties, or other monetary amounts owed by a Participant, Beneficiary, or other person as a result of any deferral or payment under the Plan.

Exhibit 10.8
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Amended and Restated Cooper Industries, Ltd. Directors' Stock Plan (the "") is made on 8 September 2009 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 471594 having its registered office at 5 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2 ("").
Directors' Stock Plan
th
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Cooper Industries
on 4 September 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda for a scheme of arrangement pursuant to section 99 of the Companies Act of 1981 under Bermuda law (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries and Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective as of close of business on 8 September 2009 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies;
WHEREAS
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Cooper Industries proposed to assume the Directors' Stock Plan and any outstanding awards issued thereunder (the "");
WHEREAS
Assumption
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Cooper Industries adopted the Directors' Stock Plan amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Cooper Industries for Cooper Industries, Ltd. in such plans; and (2) that shares of Cooper Industries will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such plans, in lieu of shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd., including upon the exercise of any stock options or upon the vesting of restricted units or share awards issued under such plans; and
WHEREAS
as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Cooper Industries desires to assume sponsorship of the Directors' Stock Plan, the terms of which (amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption) are contained in Schedule 1 and all outstanding awards issued thereunder.
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
Cooper Industries hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Directors' Stock Plan that, with effect from 8 September 2009, it shall:
 
This Deed Poll may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
This Deed Poll shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland.
this Deed Poll has been executed by Cooper Industries on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
GIVEN under the common seal of
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
 
 
 
 
(a) if elected or appointed at or before the first regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $140,000; or
(b) if elected or appointed at or before the second regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $105,000; or
(c) if elected or appointed at or before the third regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $70,000; or
(d) if elected or appointed at or before the fourth regular Board meeting following the Grant Date, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award would be $35,000.
 
5.2 At the time of making a Deferral Election, a Participant shall elect the time and form of payment. The date for the payment, or commencement of payment, shall be a specified calendar year. Subject to any limitations imposed by the Committee and/or Section 409A, the specified calendar year may be during the Participant's service as a director; the earlier or later of the calendar year in which a Participant incurs a Separation from Service or attains a specified age; or the earliest of the Participant's death, Separation from Service, a specified calendar year, or a Change in Control. The form of the payment shall be either a lump sum or a series of substantially equal annual installments over a period not to exceed ten (10) years.
5.3 A Participant may change an initial election in order to delay payment or to change the form of payment if the following conditions are met: (i) such election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made; (ii) the payment with respect to which such election is made is deferred for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise be made; and (iii) any election for a "specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule)," within the meaning of Section 409A, may not be made less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment. To the extent permitted under Section 409A, payments previously elected as installments shall be treated as a single payment.
5.4 On or before December 31, 2008, a Participant may make an election to change the time and form of payment of that portion of his Deferred Share Account credited for shares that were deferred for calendar years 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008; :
provided that
     (i) The requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no shares subject to the election shall otherwise be payable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any shares to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in such year; and
     (ii) The special election shall be subject to Section 5.2 of this Plan.
5.5 The Company shall credit to an account (a "Deferred Share Account") maintained on behalf of a Participant, as of the date on which the shares would otherwise be transferred hereunder, notional shares for the shares of Common Stock deferred ("Deferred Shares"). Deferred Shares shall be credited with an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on an equal number of outstanding shares of Common Stock ("Dividend Equivalents"). Dividend Equivalents shall be credited (i) as of the payment date of such dividends, and (ii) only with respect to Deferred Shares credited to such Participant prior to the record date of the dividend. When credited, Dividend Equivalents shall be converted into an additional number of Deferred Shares as of the payment date of the dividend, based on the Fair Market Value on such payment date. Such Deferred Shares shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as any other Deferred Shares under the Plan.
5.6 Deferred Shares will be distributed in whole shares of Common Stock and cash in lieu of fractional shares. Unless otherwise provided in the Participant's Deferral Election, payments shall be made or begin on March 1 of the calendar year specified by the Participant in his Deferral Election, and if installments are elected and effective, the second installment and any other subsequent installments shall be paid on each subsequent March 1 for the period certain. If the Deferred Shares are payable in installments, the amount of each installment shall be equal to a fraction of the amount of the Deferred Shares remaining to be paid with respect to the applicable Deferral Election, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of installments remaining to be paid.
5.7 Except as provided in Section 11 and as permitted under Section 409A, no acceleration of the time or form of payment of a Deferred Share Account, or any portion thereof, shall be
 
permitted. In the event of the death of a Participant, the undistributed balance of his Deferred Share Account shall be distributed upon his death to his beneficiary in one lump sum within ninety (90) days of his death, provided that, if such ninety-day period begins in one taxable year and ends in another taxable year, neither Participant's estate nor any beneficiary of Participant's Deferred Share Account may choose in which taxable year such lump sum will be paid. The beneficiary or beneficiaries shall be designated in writing by the Participant in the form and manner specified by the Committee; if no designation has been made, the estate of the Participant shall be his beneficiary.
6.1 Each Restricted Stock Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock upon the Participant ceasing to serve on the Board for any reason ("Restricted Stock Unit"). A Participant cannot exchange his or her Restricted Stock Units for shares of Common Stock prior to such Participant ceasing to serve on the Board. The Company shall maintain on behalf of each Participant an account and credit to the account any Restricted Stock Units granted to such Participant. Restricted Stock Units shall remain unvested while a Participant continues to serve on the Board. When a Participant ceases his or her service on the Board for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest as of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service.
6.2 Shares issued in exchange for Restricted Stock Units will be distributed in whole shares and cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to the terms of the Deferral Election made by a Participant. In the absence of such an election, all shares issuable upon the exchange of Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to a Participant in a lump sum on the March 1 following the calendar year in which the Participant has a Separation from Service.
st
11.1 The option exercise price shall be the Fair Market Value on the Grant Date.
 
11.2 The option shall become fully exercisable on the third anniversary of the Grant Date. If, prior to the third anniversary of the Grant Date, the Participant ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason other than death or retirement in accordance with the Board's retirement policy, the option rights shall terminate immediately. If the Participant dies while serving as a Director of the Company or retires in accordance with the Board's retirement policy, all outstanding options shall become fully exercisable immediately.
11.3 The duration of stock options shall be 10 years from the Grant Date.
11.4 Options may be exercised in whole or in part by delivering to the Company at its principal executive office (directed to the attention of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary) a written notice, signed by the Participant or by the Participant's executor, administrator or a person entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to exercise the option, as the case may be, of the election to exercise the option and stating the number of shares in respect of which it is then being exercised. The option shall be deemed exercised as of the date the Company receives such notice. Payment of the exercise price shall be made in cash or with shares of Common Stock or a combination of both delivered at the time that an option, or any part thereof, is exercised.
No shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of an option until full payment therefor is received. Common Stock used as payment shall have been owned by the Participant not less than six months preceding the date the option is exercised and shall be valued at its Fair Market Value.
11.5 An option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's death, by the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate or by the person who acquired the right to exercise such option by bequest or inheritance. After the Participant ceases to be a member of the Board, vested options may be exercised for the remaining term of the option or for a period of five years, whichever is less.
11.6 An option shall not be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
Participant without his or her consent with respect to outstanding options, Stock Awards, or Restricted Stock Awards, (ii) no amendment or termination shall, without the Participant's consent, permit a distribution of shares or cash under this Plan in a manner that is inconsistent with the requirements of Section 409A, and (iii) no amendment shall be effective prior to approval by the Company's shareholders to the extent such approval is then required pursuant to applicable stock exchange rules or SEC regulations, including Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act in order to preserve the exemptions provided by Rule 16b-3. In addition, the provisions of this Plan that determine the amount, price, or timing of awards shall not be amended more than once every six months (other than as may be necessary to conform to any applicable changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or the rules thereunder), unless such amendment is consistent with Rule 16b-3.

Exhibit 10.9
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Amended and Restated Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan (the "") is made on 8 September 2009 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 471594 having its registered office at 5 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2 ("").
Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan
th
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Cooper Industries
on 4 September 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda for a scheme of arrangement pursuant to section 99 of the Companies Act of 1981 under Bermuda law (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries and Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective as of close of business on September 2009 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies;
WHEREAS
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Cooper Industries proposed to assume the Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan and any outstanding awards issued thereunder (the "");
WHEREAS
Assumption
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Cooper Industries adopted the Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Cooper Industries for Cooper Industries, Ltd. in such plans; and (2) that shares of Cooper Industries will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such plans, in lieu of shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd., and
WHEREAS
as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Cooper Industries desires to assume sponsorship of the Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan, the terms of which (amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption) are contained in Schedule 1 and all outstanding awards issued thereunder.
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
Cooper Industries hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan that, with effect from 8 September 2009, it shall:
 
This Deed Poll may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
This Deed Poll shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland.
this Deed Poll has been executed by Cooper Industries on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
GIVEN under the common seal of
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
     (i) The requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no shares subject to the election shall otherwise be payable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any shares to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in such year; and
     (ii) The special election shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 7 of the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 10.10
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Cooper Industries Management Annual Incentive Plan (the "") is made on 8 September 2009 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 471594 having its registered office at 5 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2 ("").
Management Annual Incentive Plan
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Cooper Industries
on 4 September 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda for a scheme of arrangement pursuant to section 99 of the Companies Act of 1981 under Bermuda law (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries and Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective as of close of business on 8 September 2009 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies;
WHEREAS
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Cooper Industries proposed to assume the Management Annual Incentive Plan and any outstanding awards issued thereunder (the "");
WHEREAS
Assumption
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Cooper Industries adopted the Management Annual Incentive Plan amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Cooper Industries for Cooper Industries, Ltd. in such plans; and (2) that shares of Cooper Industries will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such plan, in lieu of shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd.; and
WHEREAS
as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Cooper Industries desires to assume sponsorship of the Management Annual Incentive Plan, the terms of which (amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption) are contained in Schedule 1 and all outstanding awards issued thereunder.
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
Cooper Industries hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Management Annual Incentive Plan that, with effect from 8 September 2009, it shall:
 
This Deed Poll may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
This Deed Poll shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland.
this Deed Poll has been executed by Cooper Industries on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
GIVEN under the common seal of
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
 
 
     The Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan ("Plan") is a bonus plan for senior executives designed to link executive compensation to achievement of short-term business objectives. The Plan was last approved by shareholders on April 25, 2006, when the maximum annual Award was increased from $2.5 million to $3 million and the Plan was extended until March 11, 2011. The Plan was also amended to require proportionate adjustments to Shares upon certain corporate transactions.
     Plan Awards are subject to unilateral reduction or elimination by the Committee after the Performance Period and are paid in the calendar year in which Participants obtain a "legally binding right" to Awards. Thus, Awards paid in the normal course (., in the absence of voluntary deferral elections by Participants) should not constitute "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A. Similarly, Plan amendments that apply solely to annual bonus opportunity paid in the normal course should not result in "material modifications" that subject pre-2004 deferrals under the Plan to Section 409A.
i.e
Awards paid in Shares have historically been deferred under the terms of this Plan, rather than under the Cooper Industries Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan. Plan terms applicable to Share deferrals have not been amended since October 3, 2004, and those Plan terms (the "Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms") have been frozen and shall not be modified except as permitted under Section 409A, so as to preserve the grandfathered status of pre-2004 Share deferrals and related earnings thereunder. Deferrals retained and administered under the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms are those employee Share deferrals that were earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, and income attributable to such grandfathered deferrals. The terms of the Plan applicable to Share deferrals are being deleted effective January 1, 2005 and no such deferrals are permitted after such date.
     The Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan is intended to provide Cooper Industries, Ltd. ("the Company") a means by which it can engender and sustain a sense of personal commitment on the part of its Senior Executive Officers in the continued growth, development, and financial success of the Company and encourage them to remain with and devote their best efforts to the business of the Company, thereby advancing the interests of the Company and its shareholders. Accordingly, the Company may award to Senior Executive Officers annual incentive compensation on the terms and conditions established herein.
     2.1 "Affiliates" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
 
     2.2 "Annual Incentive Award" or "Award" means the compensation payable in cash or Shares granted under the Plan to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions, and limitations established by the Committee and the Plan.
     2.3 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     2.4 "Change in Control" shall mean a change in control in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A.
     2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
     2.6 "Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan; the Committee shall consist of three or more persons each of whom is an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) and a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
provided that
     2.7 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
     2.8 "Participant" means a Senior Executive Officer of the Company who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
     2.9 "Performance Goals" shall be defined as the performance criterion or criteria established by the Committee, pursuant to Section V hereof, for the purpose of determining Awards under the Plan.
     2.10 "Performance Period" means the consecutive 12 month period that constitutes the Company's fiscal year.
     2.11 "Plan" means the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan (as amended and restated February 13, 2006, and as further amended, effective January 1, 2005, for compliance with Section 409A).
     2.12 "Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms" shall mean the terms of the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan that relate to deferral of Share Awards, as in effect on October 3, 2004.
     2.13 "Section 162(m)" means Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
     2.14 "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.15 "Senior Executive Officer" means the Chairman; Chief Executive Officer; President; Chief Operating Officer; any Executive Vice President; any Senior Vice President; or any other senior officer reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer who is designated as a Participant in the Plan.
     3.1 The overall administration of the Plan, including the final determination of Awards to each Participant, is vested in the Committee.
 
     3.2 Determinations of the Committee in administering the Plan shall be final and binding upon all Participants.
     Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Senior Executive Officers. Participants will be selected for participation annually by the Committee not later than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period. The Committee may withdraw its approval for participation in the Plan for a Participant at any time. In the event of such withdrawal, such Participant shall cease to be a Participant as of the date designated by the Committee and the individual shall be notified of such withdrawal as soon as practicable following such action. Further, such individual shall cease to have any right to an Award for the Performance Period in which such withdrawal is effective; , that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize a prorated award based on the number of full months of participation prior to the effective date of such withdrawal and the Company's performance during such period.
provided, however
     5.1 Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee not later than 90 days after commencement of the Performance Period relating to a specific Award. The Performance Goals may be identical for all Participants or, at the discretion of the Committee, may be different to reflect more appropriate measures of individual performance. The criterion or criteria used in establishing Performance Goals may, at the discretion of the Committee, include one or any combination of the following: (i) the Company's return on equity, assets, capital or investment; (ii) pre-tax or after-tax profit levels expressed in absolute dollars or earnings per Share of the Company; or (iii) cash flow or similar measure. The Performance Goals established by the Committee shall include a threshold level of performance below which no Award will be payable and a maximum Award opportunity for each Senior Executive Officer. The determination of attainment of the Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certified in writing by the Committee.
     5.2 The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Goals in recognition of: (i) extraordinary or non-recurring items, (ii) changes in tax laws, (iii) changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in accounting policies, (iv) charges related to restructured or discontinued operations, (v) restatement of prior period financial results, and (vi) any other unusual, non-recurring gain or loss that is separately identified and quantified in the Company's financial statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, modify the performance results upon which Awards are based under the Plan, to offset any unintended result(s) arising from events not anticipated when the Performance Goals were established, such adjustment is permitted by Section 162(m).
provided that
     6.1 Awards under the Plan shall be paid in cash.
     6.2 At the first meeting of the Committee after the expiration of the Performance Period, the Committee shall review the prior year's performance in relation to the Performance Goals and determine the level of achievement of the Performance Goals. Payment of Annual Incentive Awards
 
to Participants under the Plan shall occur only after the Committee has certified in writing that the Performance Goals have been achieved for the relevant Performance Period; payment shall occur on or before March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the Performance Period. Notwithstanding the attainment of Performance Goals for the Company as a whole, Awards for individual Participants under the Plan may be denied or adjusted by the Committee, in its sole judgment, based on its assessment of the Participant's performance. However, no upward adjustment may be made to an Award for a Participant if Section 162(m) would limit the deduction the Company may claim for that Participant's compensation. Further, the total Award, as adjusted, shall not exceed the maximum Award opportunity. The maximum Annual Incentive Award that may be granted to a Senior Executive Officer under the Plan for any Performance Period shall be $3.0 million.
provided that
     The Committee may permit Participants to elect to defer receipt of all or a portion of the Annual Incentive Award pursuant to the terms of the Company's Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan.
     The Company shall have the right to deduct from any payment to be made pursuant to the Plan the amount of any taxes required by law.
     No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the granting of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries expressly reserve the right at any time to terminate the employment of any Participant free from any liability under the Plan; except that a Participant, who meets or exceeds the Performance Goals for the Performance Period and was actively employed for the full term of the Performance Period, will be eligible for an Award even though the Participant is not an active employee of the Company at the time the Committee grants Awards under the Plan.
     10.1 . Immediately upon a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards shall be deemed earned at the Target Performance Goal level with respect to the portion of such Award equal to the amount of such Target Performance Goal level Award for the Participant multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months elapsed in the year of the Change in Control (with any partial month counted as a full month for such purpose) and the denominator of which is 12 (such Award to be called the "Earned Pro Rata Award").
Vesting
     10.2 . In the absence of a valid deferral of an Award pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms or the Cooper Industries Management Incentive Compensation Deferral Plan, the Company shall, within ten (10) days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, make, or cause to be made, a lump sum cash payment to the Participant equal to the Earned Pro Rata Award.
Payment
     The Board may amend, modify, suspend or terminate (individually or in the aggregate, a "Change") this Plan for any purpose except that: (i) no Change shall be effective
 
prior to approval by the Company's shareholders to the extent that such approval is then required pursuant to Section 162(m) or otherwise required as a matter of law; and (ii) no Change to the Plan shall be effective that would (a) increase the maximum amount that can be paid to a Participant under the Plan, (b) change the performance criterion or criteria set forth in Section V hereof for the payment of Awards or (c) modify the eligibility requirements for Participants in the Plan unless first approved by the Company's shareholders.
     The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any actions taken or relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and applicable Federal law.
     Unless otherwise specifically provided to the contrary in the relevant plan, program, or practice, Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits under any other Company benefit plan, program, or practice or any severance policy of the Company. Further, the Company may adopt other compensation programs, plans, or arrangements for employees below the level of Senior Executive Officer as it deems necessary and appropriate.
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator, or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
     The shareholders of the Company approved the extension of the term of the Plan until March 1, 2011. After termination of the Plan, no future Awards may be granted but previously outstanding Awards shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
     The Plan is designed to comply with Section 162(m) and, to the extent applicable, Section 409A, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner consistent with that intent.
 
     WHEREAS, on September 8, 2009, a Scheme of Arrangement under Bermuda law became effective pursuant to which the public Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, became ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries plc, a company established in Ireland, and Cooper Industries, Ltd. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc (the "Transaction"); and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Transaction, Cooper Industries plc assumed the obligations of Cooper Industries, Ltd. under Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Management Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan");
     NOW, THEREFORE, effective September 8, 2009, the Plan is amended to provide that Cooper Industries plc is substituted for Cooper Industries, Ltd. as the "Company" under the Plan and that ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc will be issued to Participants to satisfy any distributions of employee share deferrals pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms. To the extent that ordinary shares of Cooper Industries plc will be issued to Participants to satisfy any distributions of employee share deferrals pursuant to the Pre-409A Employee Share Deferral Terms, such shares will be paid up in consideration of receipt by the Company prior to, or simultaneously with, the issue of the shares of cash at least equal to the nominal value of such shares and, when shares are issued under the Plan without the payment of cash consideration by the Participant or permitted successors and assigns, then such shares shall be paid up by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.

Exhibit 10.11
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Cooper Industries, Ltd. Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the "") is made on 8 September 2009 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 471594 having its registered office at 5 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2 ("").
Stock Incentive Plan
th
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Cooper Industries
on 4 September 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda for a scheme of arrangement pursuant to section 99 of the Companies Act of 1981 under Bermuda law (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries and Cooper Industries, Ltd. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective as of close of business on 8 September 2009 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies;
WHEREAS
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Cooper Industries proposed to assume the Stock Incentive Plan and any outstanding awards issued thereunder (the "");
WHEREAS
Assumption
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Cooper Industries adopted the Stock Incentive Plan amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Cooper Industries for Cooper Industries, Ltd. in such plans; and (2) that shares of Cooper Industries will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such plans, in lieu of shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd. including upon the exercise of any stock options or upon the vesting of restricted units or performance share units issued under such plans; and
WHEREAS
as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Cooper Industries desires to assume sponsorship of the Stock Incentive Plan, the terms of which (amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption) are contained in Schedule 1 and all outstanding awards issued thereunder.
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
Cooper Industries hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Stock Incentive Plan that, with effect from 8 September 2009, it shall:
 
This Deed Poll may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
This Deed Poll shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland.
this Deed Poll has been executed by Cooper Industries on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
GIVEN under the common seal of
COOPER INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
 
 
     The Cooper Industries Stock Incentive Plan is intended to provide Cooper US, Inc. (the "Company") and its affiliates a means by which such companies can engender and sustain a sense of proprietorship and personal commitment on the part of the executives, managers and other key employees in the continued growth, development and financial success of the publicly-traded parent, Cooper Industries plc ("CBE") and encourage them to remain with and devote their best efforts to the business of the Company and its affiliates, thereby advancing the interests of the Company, its affiliates and CBE shareholders. Accordingly, the Company may award to certain employees shares of the Common Stock of CBE, on the terms and conditions established herein.
     This amended and restated Stock Incentive Plan, Post-2004 Part, applies only to Awards that were not vested as of December 31, 2004, and is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. All provisions of the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with such intention. All Awards (or portions thereof) that were vested on or prior to December 31, 2004 shall be governed by the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated February 9, 2005.
     2.1 "Affiliate" shall mean any employer, present and future, with which the Company is considered a single employer under Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code.
     2.2 "Award" means any form of Stock Option, Restricted Stock or Performance Share granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish by the Award Agreement or otherwise.
     2.3 "Award Agreement" means a written agreement with respect to an Award between the Company and a Participant establishing the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations applicable to an Award. To the extent an Award Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the Plan shall govern the rights of the Participant thereunder.
     2.4 "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of CBE.
     2.5 "Change in Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of CBE, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of CBE, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
     2.6 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
     2.7 "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     2.8 "Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan, provided that the Committee shall consist of three or more persons, each of whom is an "outside director" within the
 
meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
     2.9 "Common Stock" or "Shares" shall mean the ordinary shares, par value $0.01 a share, of CBE and other such securities of CBE as the Committee may from time to time determine.
     2.10 "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean any right granted pursuant to Section X hereof.
     2.11 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     2.12 "Executive Officer" means an executive officer as defined in Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
     2.13 "Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock, as of any date, means the closing sales price of a share of Common Stock as reported on the Stock Exchange on the applicable date or, if no sales of Common Stock were made on the Stock Exchange on that date, the closing sales price as reported on the Stock Exchange for the preceding day on which sales of Common Stock were made and , in the event of a Change in Control, Fair Market Value shall not be less than the highest price per share actually paid for the Common Stock in connection with the Change in Control of CBE.
further provided that
     2.14 "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section VII hereof that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
     2.15 "Nonstatutory Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section VII hereof that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
     2.16 "Option" shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such prices and during such Period or Periods as the Committee shall determine.
     2.17 "Participant" means an officer or key employee of the Company or its affiliates who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
     2.18 "Performance Goals" or "Targets" in respect to Awards of Performance Shares are defined as the performance criterion or criteria established by the Committee, pursuant to Section 9.3 hereof.
     2.19 "Performance Period" shall mean that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Shares are granted, provided that a Performance Period shall be a minimum of one year.
     2.20 "Performance Share" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section IX hereof of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including cash, Shares or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such Performance Goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter, or as a reward to recognize significant personal contributions to Company initiatives under the Cooper Star Program as approved by the Committee.
     2.21 "Plan" shall mean the Cooper Industries Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, Post-2004 Part, effective January 1, 2005.
     2.22 "Restricted Stock" shall mean any Shares issued pursuant to Section VIII (or any restricted stock units granted pursuant to Section VIII that are valued by reference to a designated number
 
of Shares) and which are subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate, including but not limited to restrictions on transferability, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
     2.23 "Section 162(m)" means Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.24 "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
     2.25 "Separation from Service" shall mean the termination of employment of a Participant with the Company and all Affiliates for any reason other than death; provided, however, that a Company-approved leave of absence shall not be considered a termination of employment if the leave does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the Participant's right to reemployment is provided either by statute or by contract. Whether a Participant has incurred a Separation from Service shall be determined in accordance with Section 409A.
     2.26 "Stock Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE") or, if the Common Stock is no longer included on the NYSE, then such other market price reporting system on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted.
     2.27 "Voting Stock" means securities entitled to vote in an election of Directors of CBE.
 
     3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
     3.2 Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to select the Participants; to determine the type of Awards to be made to Participants; to determine the Shares subject to any Award and the terms, conditions and restrictions relating to any Award; to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award may be settled, cancelled, forfeited, exchanged, or surrendered; to waive or modify any condition applicable to an Award (other than a Performance Share Award to Executive Officers if inconsistent with Section 162(m)); to make adjustments in the performance goals of an Award (i) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting CBE or the financial statements of CBE (with respect to Awards made to Executive Officers, to the extent in accordance with Section 162(m), if applicable) or (ii) in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; to interpret the Plan; to establish, amend or rescind any administrative policies; to determine the terms and provisions of any agreements entered into hereunder; and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry it into effect. The determinations of the Committee in the administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall be final and conclusive: provided, however, that no action shall be taken which will prevent Awards granted under the Plan from meeting the requirements for exemption from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or subsequent comparable statute, as set forth in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or any subsequent comparable rule; and, provided further, that no action shall be taken which will prevent Awards hereunder (i) that are intended to provide "performance-based compensation," within the meaning of Section 162(m), from doing so or (ii) that are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, from doing so.
     3.3 In order to enable Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, or both, to receive Awards under the Plan, the Committee may adopt such amendments, subplans and the like as are necessary or advisable, in the opinion of the Committee, to effectuate the purposes of the Plan.
     3.4 Notwithstanding the powers and authorities of the Committee set forth in this Section III,
     Any key employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is eligible to receive one or more Awards under the Plan.
 
     5.1 There shall be available for Awards granted wholly or partly in Common Stock (including rights or options which may be exercised for or settled in Common Stock) during the term of this Plan since its inception in 1996 an aggregate of 41,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to the adjustments provided for in Section XIV hereof. The 41,000,000 Shares available for Awards consist of 34,000,000 Shares (adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split completed in March 2007) previously approved by the Company and CBE shareholders and 7,000,000 Shares approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting. Of the 7,000,000 Shares approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting, no more than 2,100,000 Shares are available for Restricted Stock and Performance Shares.
     5.2 Shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares, treasury shares, or outstanding CBE ordinary shares held by subsidiaries of CBE, as the Company and CBE may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors and the appropriate officers of CBE shall from time to time take whatever actions are necessary to file required documents with governmental authorities and the Stock Exchange to make shares of Common Stock available for issuance pursuant to Awards. Common Stock related to Awards that are forfeited or otherwise terminated, or expire unexercised, shall immediately become available for Awards hereunder. If an Award is exchanged for cash or other property of comparable value, the Common Stock related to the Award will be deducted from the Shares available for Awards hereunder. Any Shares issued by CBE in respect of the assumption or substitution of outstanding awards from a corporation or other business entity acquired by CBE shall not reduce the number of Shares available for Awards under this Plan. The Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such procedures concerning the counting of shares against the Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate under Rule 16b-3 issued pursuant to the Exchange Act.
     5.3 The number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted under the Plan to any individual who is an Executive Officer shall not exceed the limits set forth below:
Determinations under the preceding sentence shall be made in a manner that is consistent with Section 162(m).
     5.4 Any Shares issued pursuant to the Plan will be paid up in consideration of the receipt by the Company prior to, or simultaneously with, the issue of the Shares of cash at least equal to the nominal value of such Shares, and when Shares are issued under the Plan without the payment of cash consideration by any Participant or permitted successors and assigns, then such Shares shall be paid up by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
     Awards under the Plan may consist of: Stock Options (either Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Restricted Stock, or Performance Shares. Awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Stock may provide the Participant with dividends or Dividend Equivalents and voting rights prior to vesting (whether based on a period of time or based on attainment of specified performance conditions). The terms, conditions and restrictions of each Award shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
 
     7.1 . Awards may be granted in the form of Stock Options. Stock Options may be Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of both, or any particular type of tax-advantaged option authorized by the Code from time to time, and approved by the Committee.
Grants
     7.2 A Stock Option shall be exercisable in whole or in such installments and at such times and upon such terms as may be determined by the Committee: provided, however, that no Stock Option shall be exercisable more than 10 years after the date of grant thereof. The option exercise price shall be established by the Committee, but such price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value on the date of the Stock Option's grant, subject to adjustment as provided in Section XIV hereof.
Terms and Conditions of Options.
     7.3 Stock Options issued in the form of Incentive Stock Options shall, in addition to being subject to all applicable terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations established by the Committee, comply with Section 422 of the Code. The aggregate Fair Market Value of stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options (granted pursuant to this Plan or any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate) are first exercisable by any Participant during any calendar year may not exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). Incentive Stock Options shall be granted only to key employees of the Company and its "subsidiaries" within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
Restrictions Relating to Incentive Stock Options.
     7.4 Upon exercise, a Participant may pay the option exercise price of a Stock Option in cash or Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares, or such other consideration as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee shall establish appropriate methods for accepting Common Stock and may impose such conditions as it deems appropriate on the use of Common Stock to exercise a Stock Option.
Payment.
     7.5 The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreement or otherwise, establish such other terms, conditions or restrictions, if any, on any Stock Option Award, provided they are not inconsistent with the Plan or Section 409A. The Committee may condition the vesting of Stock Options on the achievement of financial performance criteria established by the Committee at the time of grant.
Additional Terms and Conditions.
     8.1 Awards may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock ("Restricted Stock Awards"). Restricted Stock Awards shall be awarded in such numbers and at such times as the Committee shall determine.
Grants.
     8.2 Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such terms, conditions or restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability, requirements of continued employment, individual performance or the financial performance of CBE. The period of vesting and the forfeiture restrictions shall be established by the Committee at the time of grant, provided that the period of vesting shall be at least three years from the date of grant, except as provided in Section XVIII.
Award Restrictions.
     8.3 The Committee may, in its discretion, grant to the Participant to whom such Restricted Stock has been awarded, all or any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, including the right to receive dividends or Dividend Equivalents.
Rights as Shareholders.
 
     8.4 Any Restricted Stock Award granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee deems appropriate, including, without limitation, book entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates.
Evidence of Award.
     9.1 Awards may be granted in the form of Performance Shares.
Grants.
     9.2 The Committee may grant an Award of Performance Shares to Participants as of the first day of each Performance Period. Performance Goals will be established by the Committee not later than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period relating to the specific Award. At the end of the Performance Period, the Performance Shares shall be converted into Common Stock (or cash or a combination of Common Stock and cash, as determined by the Award Agreement) and distributed to Participants based upon such entitlement. The Committee may also grant Performance Shares as a reward to employees to recognize significant personal contributions to Company initiatives under the Cooper Star Program. Award payment in respect of Performance Shares made in cash rather than the issuance of Common Stock shall not, by reason of such payment in cash, result in additional Shares being available for reissuance pursuant to Section V hereof.
Performance Shares.
     9.3 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section IX, Performance Share Awards shall be made to Executive Officers only in compliance with Section 162(m). Performance criteria used to establish Performance Goals for Performance Share Awards granted to Executive Officers must include one or any combination of the following: (i) CBE's return on equity, assets, capital or investment; (ii) pre-tax or after-tax profit levels expressed in earnings per share of CBE or any subsidiary or business segment of CBE; (iii) cash flow or similar measure; (iv) total shareholder return; (v) change in the market price of the Common Stock; (vi) market share; or (vii) debt ratios or similar measures. The Performance Goals established by the Committee for each Performance Share Award will specify achievement targets with respect to each applicable performance criterion (including a threshold level of performance below which no amount will become payable with respect to such Award). To the extent applicable, any such Performance Goals shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Each Award will specify the amount payable, or the formula for determining the amount payable, upon achievement of the various applicable Performance Targets. The Performance Goals established by the Committee may be (but need not be) different for each Performance Period and different Performance Goals may be applicable for Awards to different Executive Officers in the same Performance Period. Payment shall be made with respect to a Performance Share Award to an Executive Officer only after the attainment of the applicable Performance Goals has been certified in writing by the Committee.
Performance Criteria.
     9.4 The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Goals in recognition of: (i) extraordinary or non-recurring items; (ii) changes in tax laws; (iii) changes in generally accepted accounting principles or changes in accounting policies; (iv) charges related to restructured or discontinued operations; (v) restatement of prior period financial results; and (vi) any other unusual, non-recurring gain or loss that is separately identified and quantified in CBE's financial statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, at its sole discretion, modify the performance results upon which Awards are based under the Plan, to offset any unintended result(s) arising from events not anticipated when the Performance Goals were established, provided, that such adjustment is permitted by Section 162(m).
Adjustments.
     9.5 . The Committee may, by way of the Award Agreement or otherwise, determine the manner of payment of Awards of Performance Shares and other
Additional Terms and Conditions
 
terms, conditions or restrictions, if any, on any Award of Performance Shares, provided they are consistent with the Plan.
     Upon issuance of Performance Shares earned under the Plan, the Company also shall pay to the Participant an amount equal to the aggregate amount of dividends that the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such earned Performance Shares during the Performance Period. Upon the grant of restricted stock units, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide for the accrual or payment of dividends that the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of the underlying Shares during the vesting period.
     The Committee may require or permit Participants to elect to defer the issuance of Shares or cash pursuant to an Award under such administrative policies as it may establish under the Plan, provided that such policies are consistent with the requirements of Section 409A. The Committee also may provide that deferred settlements include the payment or crediting of interest on the deferred amount, or for the payment or crediting of Dividend Equivalents where the deferral amounts are denominated in Shares.
     A Participant shall also elect the time and form of payment of deferred Shares at the time the election to defer Shares is made. A Participant may elect (x) a single lump sum distribution of Shares and cash or (y) a series of substantially equal installments over a period certain of up to three (3) years. The Shares remaining to be distributed shall continue to earn Dividend Equivalents as provided in Section X. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the election shall specify the calendar year in which the distribution of the deferred Shares for that Performance Period shall be made or shall commence. Subject to any limitations imposed by the Committee and/or Section 409A, the specified calendar year may be a calendar year during the Participant's active employment or the earlier or later of the calendar year in which a Participant incurs a Separation from Service or attains a specified age.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or any deferral election filed by a Participant, in the event any Participant defers the issuance of Shares or cash pursuant to an Award of Performance Shares, no payment of such Shares or cash may be made to the Participant before the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service from the Company and any Affiliate (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death).
     Any undistributed Shares credited to a Participant at his death shall be distributed in a lump sum within ninety (90) days of death provided that, if such ninety-day period begins in one taxable year and ends in another taxable year, neither Participant's estate nor any beneficiary of Participant may choose in which taxable year such distribution will be made. A Participant, by written instrument filed with the Committee in such manner and form as it may prescribe, may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive payment of the Participant's deferred Shares in the event of his death. Any such beneficiary designation may be changed from time to time prior to the death of the Participant. If no beneficiary designation is in effect at a Participant's death, payment shall be made to his estate.
     On or before December 31, 2008, a Participant may make an election to change the time and form of payment of any deferred Shares credited for the Performance Periods 2002-2003 through 2008-2010; provided that (i) the requirements for transition relief under Section 409A are met, including the requirements that no Shares subject to the election shall otherwise be distributable in 2008 and that the election shall not cause any Shares to be distributed in 2008 that would not otherwise be distributable in such year and (ii) the special election shall be subject to this Section XI.
 
     Upon the termination of employment by a Participant, any unexercised, deferred or unpaid Awards shall be treated as provided in the specific Award Agreement evidencing the Award, except that the Committee may, in its discretion:
     Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Committee shall not have the power to accelerate the payment of any Shares or cash deferred pursuant to Article XI hereunder, nor to amend any Award in any manner, unless such acceleration or amendment is (i) permitted by Section 409A or (ii) consented to by such Participant.
     Awards granted under the Plan shall not be transferable or assignable other than: (i) by will or the laws of descent and distribution; (ii) by gift or other transfer of an Award (other than an Incentive Stock Option unless permitted by the Code) to any trust or estate in which the original Award recipient or such recipient's spouse or other immediate relative has a substantial beneficial interest, or to a spouse or other immediate relative, provided that any such transfer is permitted subject to Rule 16b-3 issued pursuant to the Exchange Act as in effect when such transfer occurs and the Board does not rescind this provision prior to such transfer; or (iii) pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order (as defined by the Code). However, any Award so transferred shall continue to be subject to all the terms and conditions contained in the Award Agreement.
     14.1 The existence of outstanding Awards shall not affect in any manner the right or power of CBE or its shareholders to make or authorize: (i) any adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the capital stock of CBE or its business; (ii) any merger or consolidation of CBE; (iii) any issuance of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stock (whether or not such issue is prior to, on a parity with or junior to the Common Stock); (iv) the dissolution or liquidation of CBE, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business; or (v) any other corporate act or proceeding of any kind, whether or not of a character similar to that of the acts or proceedings enumerated above.
     14.2 If there is a change in the number of outstanding Shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split or reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, or exchange of Shares, or similar corporate change, an equitable substitution or proportionate adjustment shall be made to: (i) the aggregate number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan; (ii) the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan; (iii) the Option exercise price per Share; (iv) the number of deferred Shares credited to a Participant's
 
account pursuant to Section XI; and (v) the limit on the number of shares subject to Awards pursuant to Section 5.3 hereof. Any substitution or adjustment of an Award shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
     The Company shall have the right to deduct from any payment to be made pursuant to the Plan the amount of any taxes required by law to be withheld therefrom, or to require a Participant to pay to the Company such amount required to be withheld prior to the issuance or delivery of any shares of Common Stock or the payment of cash under the Plan. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to elect to satisfy such withholding obligation by (i) having the Company retain the number of shares of Common Stock, or (ii) tendering the number of shares of Common Stock, in either case, whose Fair Market Value equals the amount required to be withheld. Any fraction of a share of Common Stock required to satisfy such obligation shall be disregarded and the amount due shall instead be paid in cash, to or by the Participant, as the case may be.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, the Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates evidencing Shares under this Plan prior to: (i) the obtaining of any approval from any governmental agency which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (ii) the listing of such Shares on the Stock Exchange; and (iii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any state or federal law or ruling of any governmental body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.
     No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates expressly reserve the right at any time to terminate the employment of any Participant free from any liability, or any claim under the Plan, except as provided herein or in any Award Agreement entered into hereunder.
     18.1 .
Vesting and Deferral
     (i) . Immediately upon a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards shall vest automatically, all forfeiture restrictions shall lapse, and all Performance Share Awards shall be deemed earned at the commendable Performance Goal level.
Vesting
     (ii) . Accounts denominated in cash immediately prior to a Change in Control shall continue to be denominated in cash following a Change in Control. Accounts denominated in Shares immediately prior to a Change in Control shall, following such Change in Control, be denominated in (a) such form of consideration as the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such Shares at the time of such Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control With Consideration and (b) Shares, in the case of a Change in Control Without Consideration.
Deferral
 
     (iii) "Change in Control With Consideration" shall mean a Change in Control in which Shares are exchanged or surrendered for shares, cash or other property. "Change in Control Without Consideration" shall mean a Change in Control pursuant to which Shares are not exchanged or surrendered for shares, cash or other property.
Definitions.
     18.2 .
Payment and Rollover
     (i) . In the event of a Change in Control, all Deferral Accounts related to Performance Share Awards shall be paid out in cash to a Participant on the date of such Change in Control, with the amount of such cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the Performance Shares held in the Participant's Account.
Payment of Deferral Accounts Relating to Performance Share Awards
     (ii) With respect to outstanding Restricted Stock Awards and Performance Share Awards, the Company shall, within ten (10) days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, (a) issue or cause to be issued, for any Shares covered by such Awards, (i) such form of consideration as the Participant would have received had the Participant been the owner of record of such Shares at the time of such Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control With Consideration and (ii) Shares, in the case of a Change in Control Without Consideration and (b) make, or cause to be made, a lump sum cash payment to the Participant for any accrued interest and Dividend Equivalents.
Payment of Outstanding Restricted Stock Awards and Performance Share Awards.
     (iii) . With respect to outstanding Stock Options which have vested pursuant to Section 18.1 of the Plan, unless the Committee has determined to make an equitable adjustment or substitution of such Stock Options pursuant to Section 14.2 of the Plan as a result of the Change in Control, upon a Change in Control the Company shall cancel such Stock Options and, within 10 days thereafter, the Company shall make or cause to be made a cash payment to each holder thereof in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Stock Option over the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of Shares subject to such Stock Option.
Stock Option Rollover or Cash-Out
     18.3 It is recognized that under certain circumstances: (a) payments or benefits provided to a Participant might give rise to an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code; and (b) it might be beneficial to a Participant to disclaim some portion of the payment or benefit in order to avoid such "excess parachute payment" and thereby avoid the imposition of an excise tax resulting therefrom; and (c) under such circumstances it would not be to the disadvantage of the Company or CBE to permit the Participant to disclaim any such payment or benefit in order to avoid the "excess parachute payment" and the excise tax resulting therefrom.
     Accordingly, the Participant may, at the Participant's option, exercisable at any time or from time to time, disclaim any entitlement to any portion of the payment or benefits arising under this Plan which would constitute "excess parachute payments," and it shall be the Participant's choice as to which payments or benefits shall be so surrendered, if and to the extent that the Participant exercises such option, so as to avoid "excess parachute payments" , that Participant must first surrender payments or benefits that are payable in the same calendar year as the event giving rise to such "excess parachute payment" and, if additional payments or benefits are surrendered, must then surrender payments or benefits that are payable in the immediately succeeding calendar year and that no payment or benefit that is surrendered shall affect the amount of payment or benefit payable in a subsequent calendar year.
provided, however
provided further
 
     18.4 The granting of Awards under the Plan shall in no way affect the right of the Company or CBE to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structures or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any portion of its business or assets.
     The Board may amend, modify, suspend or terminate (individually or in the aggregate, a "Change") this Plan for any purpose except that: (i) no Change that would impair the rights of any Participant under any Award previously granted to such Participant shall be made without such Participant's consent, (ii) no Change shall be effective prior to approval by CBE's shareholders to the extent such approval is required: (a) pursuant to Rule 16b-3 in order to preserve the applicability of any exemption provided by such rule to any Award then outstanding (unless the holder of such Award consents); (b) pursuant to Section 162(m); or (c) otherwise required by applicable legal requirements including applicable requirements of the Stock Exchange on which CBE is listed and (iii) following a Change in Control, the terms and conditions of deferrals under the Plan may not be changed to the detriment of any Participant without such Participant's written consent.
     The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any actions taken or relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and applicable Federal law.
     Except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder until he or she becomes the holder of record.
     Unless otherwise specifically provided to the contrary in the relevant plan, program or practice, settlements of Awards received by Participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating payments or benefits from any Company or CBE benefit plan, program or practice or any severance pay law of any country. Further, the Company and CBE may adopt other compensation programs, plans or arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary.
     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person. To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of an Award granted under the Plan, such rights (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) shall be no greater than the rights of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
     The cash proceeds received by the Company from the issuance of Shares pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant, including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
     This Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by the Board of Directors of CBE. Subject to earlier termination pursuant to Section XIX, the Plan shall continue in effect through November 7, 2015. After termination of the Plan, no future Awards may be granted but previously granted Awards shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
     The Plan as applicable to certain employees is designed and intended to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, with Section 162(m), and with Section 409A, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply with respect to such employees. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, although the Board, the Committee, and any designee of the Board or Committee shall use their best efforts to avoid the imposition of taxation, penalties, and interest under Section 409A, the tax treatment of Participant deferrals under the Plan shall not be, and is not, warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, the Board, the Committee, nor any of their designees shall be held liable for any taxes, penalties, or other monetary amounts owed by a Participant, Beneficiary, or other person as a result of any deferral or payment under the Plan.

Exhibit 99.1
Cooper Industries Completes Change in Place of Incorporation
 Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) announced today that its reorganization has been completed and the Company is now incorporated in Ireland. The transaction was completed on September 8, 2009, following the receipt of the required approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda.
Dublin, Ireland, September 9, 2009
"Ireland's stable business, legal and regulatory environment, its status as a member of the European Union and its solid network of commercial, tax and other treaties with the United States, the European Union and other countries where Cooper has major operations provides us with increased strategic flexibility as we continue to expand the international portion of our business. This reorganization is one of the key proactive measures we are taking to manage our cost structure and remain competitive in global markets so Cooper can continue to reinvest in its business, expand our workforce and develop innovative new products," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kirk S. Hachigian.
As a result of the reorganization, the public Class A common shareholders of Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the Bermuda company) have become ordinary shareholders of Cooper Industries plc (the Irish company) and Cooper Industries, Ltd. has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc. Shares of Cooper Industries plc will begin trading on the NYSE today under the symbol "CBE", the same symbol under which the Cooper Industries Ltd. Class A common shares previously traded. Cooper Industries plc will remain subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements, the mandates of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and we will continue to report our consolidated financial results in U.S. dollars and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
About Cooper Industries
Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) is a global manufacturer with 2008 revenues of $6.5 billion, approximately 88% of which are from electrical products. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs. The Company has eight operating divisions with leading market share positions and
 
world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2008, sixty-one percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and thirty-seven percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States. Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2008. For more information, visit the website at .
www.cooperindustries.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this news release are forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations, and the resolution of potential liabilities and insurance recoveries resulting from on-going Pneumo-Abex related asbestos claims.


