FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20090423101220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
First Quarter 2009 Results of Operations On April 23, 2009, Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company") issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 setting forth the Company's results of operations for the first quarter 2009. The press release includes a reference to free cash flow; the Company's net debt-to-total capitalization ratio; and income from continuing operations and earnings per share for the first quarter 2009, excluding restructuring charges and gain from a discrete tax item for the first quarter of 2009. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the press release. Company management believes that the presentation of free cash flow provides investors an efficient means by which they can evaluate the Companys capacity in the period to reduce debt, repurchase shares and make acquisitions or other investments. Management also uses free cash flow to assess the Company's operating p erformance and includes free cash flow as a criteria for determining incentive compensation for key employees. Company management believes that the net debt-to-total capitalization ratio provides investors with a supplemental ratio that reflects the Companys debt leverage if the Company were to use its cash to pay down debt. Finally, Company management believes that adjusting income from continuing operations and earnings per share for the first quarter 2009 to exclude restructuring charges and a gain from a discrete tax item, provides investors with a more meaningful assessment of operating results for 2009 and the comparison to operating results for the comparable periods in 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits 99.1 Company press release dated April 23, 2009 titled, "Cooper Industries Reports First Quarter Earnings from Continuing Operations of $.48 Per Share; Record First Quarter Free Cash Flow."
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE: CBE) today reported first quarter 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations of $.48 (diluted), compared with $.86 for the first quarter of 2008. During the first quarter of 2009 Cooper recognized a pre-tax restructuring charge of $8.8 million or $.04 per share relating primarily to reductions in workforce. First quarter 2009 results include the favorable impact of a discrete tax item which improved reported quarterly results by approximately $.05 per share. Excluding these unusual items, the first quarter 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations was $.47 per share compared to $.81 per share for earnings from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2008, excluding gains from currency related and discrete tax items. First quarter 2009 revenues decreased 19 percent to $1.26 billion, compared with $1.55 billion for the same period last year. Core revenues were 16 percent lower than comparable prior year with acquisitions contributing 2 percent and currency translation reducing reported revenue by over 4 percent for the quarter.
HOUSTON, April 23, 2009
"As the quarter progressed, the weakness in our global markets that we noted in our February 19 Outlook Meeting persisted. We also did not experience as strong of a normal seasonality uptick in March as our customers continued to reduce inventory levels which resulted in revenues declining below the lower end of our forecast. Our teams around the globe aggressively reduced our cost structure and did an outstanding job aligning inventory levels with current market conditions which contributed to record first quarter free cash flow. In addition to the 2,200 positions that were eliminated in the fourth quarter of 2008, another 650 positions were eliminated in the first quarter of 2009. While we are seeing some signs of stabilization in our markets, we expect to continue to focus on rightsizing our businesses for current market conditions," said Cooper Industries' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kirk S. Hachigian.
th
During the first quarter of 2009 Cooper generated a record $137 million in free cash flow after $29 million of capital expenditures compared with $42 million of free cash flow for the first quarter of 2008. After repurchase of 1.3 million shares, our total debt net of cash and investments totaled $900 million compared to $952 million at December 31, 2008. "Our markets turned severely negative in early November 2008 and we immediately began taking steps to quickly reduce our internal production rates, discretionary spend and working capital levels. As a result, our operating working capital decreased 20% from March 31, 2008 on a 19% revenue decline. We end the quarter with an excellent balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility to continue to invest in our long-term strategy," said Hachigian.
During the first quarter of 2009, Cooper recognized a gain from discontinued operations of $18.9 million (net of tax of $12.0 million) or $.11 per share from negotiated insurance coverage settlements consummated in the first quarter that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance-in-place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation.
segment revenues for the first quarter of 2009 decreased 17 percent to $1.13 billion, compared with $1.36 billion in the first quarter 2008. Core revenues were 15.4 percent lower than comparable prior year periods with acquisitions contributing 2.1 percent and currency translation reducing reported results 3.7 percent for the first quarter. Segment operating earnings, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, were $140.0 million, a decrease of 37 percent from the $223.5 million in the prior year's first quarter. Segment operating margin, excluding the unusual items, decreased 400 basis points to 12.4 percent for the first quarter of 2009, compared to the first quarter of 2008.
Segment Results
Electrical Products
"The global recession resulted in weakness in all of our markets and geographies, especially the United States and Western Europe. During the quarter, we sacrificed earnings to quickly adjust inventory levels to current market conditions and position Cooper for improved profitability in the remainder of the year," said Hachigian.
segment revenues for the first quarter of 2009 were $126.3 million, down 32 percent from 2008 first quarter revenues of $184.5 million. Excluding the effects of currency translation, which reduced reported revenues in the quarter by 7.2 percent, core revenues for the quarter were 24.5 percent lower than 2008 first quarter on declining industrial, retail and automotive demand. Segment operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, was a loss of $3.9 million, compared to the first quarter 2008 earnings of $17.2 million. Segment operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, for the first quarter 2009 was a negative 3.1 percent compared to positive 9.3 percent for the comparable prior year period. Tools segment production was significantly curtailed to adjust to the lower volumes in the quarter and reduce inventory levels to reflect market conditions which negatively impacted the Tools segment performance for the quarter.
Tools
"We are very proud of our employees for their efforts in maintaining a high level of customer service and managing our overall cost structure during a very challenging economic period. As a result of those efforts, we are well prepared to navigate a very difficult market environment. We remain positive about the long-term direction of our end markets, global penetration and trends in new technologies. We have been refining our strategy, business initiatives and core values for several years and this gives us confidence that we will emerge from the current economic cycle stronger and better positioned to continue to perform as a premier global, industrial company. Our balance sheet also provides us exceptional resource to execute our long-term strategy," commented Hachigian.
Outlook
"For 2009, we now are forecasting earnings per share from continuing operations to decline to $2.30 to $2.60, excluding restructuring and unusual items, compared to $2.45 to $2.80 given in January 2009. For the year, we currently expect to incur $.12 to $.15 per share of restructuring charges. For the year, revenues are forecast to decline in the range of 17 to 21 percent. For the second quarter of 2009, we expect earnings per share from continuing operations of $.50 to $.60, excluding restructuring and unusual items. In the second quarter of 2009, we expect to incur additional restructuring charges of $.05 per share. We are forecasting revenues for the second quarter 2009 to decline in the range of 21 to 26 percent compared to a very strong performance during the second quarter of 2008. Given the uncertain trends in our markets in the first quarter, we are taking a conservative position and approach to the remainder of 2009," said Hachigian.
Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE: CBE) is a global manufacturer with 2008 revenues of $6.5 billion, approximately 88% of which are from electrical products. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs. The Company has eight operating divisions with leading market share positions and world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2008, sixty-one percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and thirty-seven percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States. Cooper, which has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2008, is incorporated in Bermuda with administrative headquarters in Houston, TX. For more information, visit the website at .
About Cooper Industries
www.cooperindustries.com
Comparisons of 2009 and 2008 first quarter results appear on the following pages.
Statements in this news release are forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations, and the resolution of potential liabilities and insurance recoveries resulting from on-going Pneumo-Abex related asbestos claims.
Cooper will hold a conference call today at 12:00 noon EDT to provide shareholders and other interested parties an overview of the Company's first quarter 2009 performance. Those interested in hearing the conference call may listen via telephone by dialing (888) 679-8037 using pass code 38442451, or over the Internet through the Investor Center section of the Company's website, using the "Management Presentations" link. International callers should dial (617) 213-4849
Conference Call
and use pass code 38442451.
The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Cooper will post a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the Investor Center section of the Company's website under the heading "Management Presentations."
Informational exhibits concerning the Company's first quarter performance that may be referred to during the conference call will be available in the Investor Center section of the Company's website under the heading "Management Presentations" prior to the beginning of the call.


