FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20100222122749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective February 16, 2010, Mr. Gary A. Masse is leaving Cooper Industries to explore other opportunities. Mr. Masse has been President, Cooper Tools since 2006. Laura K. Ulz has been appointed as the new President, Cooper Tools. Ms. Ulz joined Cooper Industries in 2007 as Vice President, Operations and since then has been responsible for leading Coopers manufacturing, sourcing, supply chain, quality and continuous improvement groups and will continue to oversee these functions in her new expanded role.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Company press release dated February 17, 2010 titled, "Cooper Industries Appoints New Cooper Tools President."
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

P.O. Box 4446 Houston, Texas 77210-4446
Cooper Industries
News Release
For Immediate Release
Mark Doheny Cooper Industries 713-209-8484 mark.doheny@cooperindustries.com
For information contact:
 Cooper Industries today announced the appointment of Laura K. Ulz as President, Cooper Tools. Ulz joined Cooper in 2007 as Vice President, Operations and since then has been responsible for leading Cooper's manufacturing, sourcing, supply chain, quality and continuous improvement groups and will continue to oversee these functions in her new expanded role.
Dublin, Ireland, February 17, 2010
"Laura has a proven track record of success at Cooper and has been instrumental in advancing our operational excellence initiative forward across the entire company," said Cooper Industries Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kirk S. Hachigian. "She brings a wealth of experience and management expertise to her new additional responsibilities of overseeing Cooper Tools and will help ensure the continued success of this great business."
Prior to joining Cooper, Ulz worked for Honeywell International and Texas Instruments. Ulz holds an MBA from the University of Wisconsin and a bachelor's degree in Industrial Engineering from Iowa State University.
Ulz succeeds Gary A. Masse, who is leaving Cooper to explore other opportunities.
Cooper Tools, a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE), serves a multitude of global markets, including automotive, aerospace, electronics, energy, hardware, industrial, and volume retail. It offers a broad selection of application-oriented products, together with the teamed experiences of talented engineers and designers and quality-conscious production, customer service, and product development personnel. Cooper Tools provides meaningful productivity gains to its customers through the proper application of its many well-known brands of specialized industrial power tools, hand tools, chain, and electronic soldering products.
About Cooper Tools
About Cooper Industries
Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) is a global manufacturer with 2009 revenues of $5.1 billion, approximately eighty-nine percent of which are from electrical products. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs. The Company has eight operating divisions with leading market share positions and world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2009, sixty-one percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and thirty-nine percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States. Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2009. For more information, visit the website at
www.cooperindustries.com


