FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20101207153612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
          On December 7, 2010, Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), and a subsidiary of Cooper Industries plc, completed its public offering of $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.375% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 (the "2016 Notes") and $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.875% Senior Notes due December 15, 2020 (the "2020 Notes" and the 2020 Notes together with the 2016 Notes, the "Notes") and the related guarantees (the "Guarantees"). The Notes were issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"), dated December 7, 2010 as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, each dated as of December 7, 2010 and each among Cooper US, Cooper Industries plc, the subsidiary guarantors named therein and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indentures").
          At any time, in the case of the 2016 Notes, and prior to September 15, 2020 (three months prior to the maturity date) in the case of the 2020 Notes, Cooper US may redeem the applicable series of notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at its option at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
plus, in each case, accrued interest to, but not including, the redemption date. At any time on or after September 15, 2020 (three months prior to their maturity date), the 2020 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part at any time and from time to time, at Cooper US's option at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes to be redeemed plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
          If Cooper Industries plc experiences a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined in the Supplemental Indentures) with respect to a series of Notes, Cooper US will be required to offer to purchase the applicable series of Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
          The foregoing description of the Notes is qualified by reference to the terms of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures, which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.
          A copy of the press release announcing the closing is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. A legality opinion of King & Spalding LLP with respect to the validity of the Notes and the Guarantees is attached hereto as Exhibit 5.1. An opinion of King & Spalding LLP related to certain tax matters is attached hereto as Exhibit 8.1. The Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures (including the forms of Note and the forms of Guarantee) are also filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     , dated as of December 7, 2010 from ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the ""), and , a public limited company formed under the laws of Ireland (hereinafter called ""), to , a banking corporation existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee (hereinafter called the ""),
THIS INDENTURE
Cooper US, Inc
Company
Cooper Industries plc
Cooper Parent
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
Trustee
     WHEREAS, the Company is empowered to borrow money for its corporate purposes and to issue its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "");
Debt Securities
     WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes Debt Securities, unlimited as to principal amount, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of the Debt Securities in one or more series, bearing such rates of interest, if any, maturing at such time or times and having such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided;
     WHEREAS, Cooper Parent has determined that it is in its best interests to guarantee the Company's obligations under the Debt Securities and this Indenture; and
     WHEREAS, each of the Company and Cooper Parent by due corporate action has determined to execute and deliver an indenture in the form of this Indenture, and all things necessary to make this Indenture a legal, valid, binding and enforceable agreement of the Company and Cooper Parent, in accordance with its terms, have been done and performed;
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in consideration of the premises and of the acceptance and purchase of the Debt Securities by the holders thereof, the Company and Cooper Parent covenant and agree with the Trustee, for the benefit of all the present and future Holders of the Debt Securities or series thereof, as follows:
     SECTION 1.01. . The terms defined in this (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this . All other terms used in this Indenture which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 or which are by reference therein defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise required) shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said Securities Act as in force at the date this Indenture is originally executed. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America at the time of determination of such terms.
Definitions
Section 1.01
Section 1.01
 
     "": The term "Additional Amounts" shall have the meaning specified in .
Additional Amounts
Section 5.09
     "": The term "Agent Member" shall have the meaning specified in .
Agent Member
Section 2.11
     "": The term "Applicable Debt Securities" shall have the meaning specified in .
Applicable Debt Securities
Section 7.01
     "": The term "Attributable Debt" shall mean the present value (discounted in accordance with a method of discounting which for financial reporting purposes is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles) of the rental payments during the remaining terms of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction for which the lessee is obligated (including any period for which such lease has been extended), such rental payments not to include amounts payable by the lessee for maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments and similar charges and for contingent rents (such as those based on sales). In case of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such rental payments shall also include such penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated.
Attributable Debt
     "": The term "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company or a Guarantor, as applicable, or any committee of such Board of Directors or any committee of officers of such Person duly authorized to take any action hereunder.
Board of Directors
     "": The terms "Certified Resolutions" or "Board Resolutions" shall mean a copy delivered to the Trustee of a resolution of the Board of Directors certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the applicable corporation, to have been duly adopted and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Certified Resolutions or Board Resolutions
     "": The term "Change in the Tax Law" shall have the meaning specified in .
Change in the Tax Law
Section 4.04
     "": The term "Company" shall mean Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and, subject to the provisions of , shall mean its successors and assigns.
Company
Article Twelve
     "": The term "Consolidated Tangible Assets" shall mean, as of any date, the total amount of assets of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding that date, as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, less: (a) Intangible Assets and (b) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding equity investments in Subsidiaries, in the case of each of clauses (a) and (b) above as reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding that date.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
     "": The term "Cooper Parent" shall mean Cooper Industries plc, an Irish company, and, subject to the provisions of , shall mean its successors and assigns.
Cooper Parent
Article Twelve
 
     "": The term "Debt Security" or "Debt Securities" shall mean any note or notes, bond or bonds, debenture or debentures, or any other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, of any series authenticated and delivered from time to time under this Indenture.
Debt Security or Debt Securities; Outstanding
     The term "outstanding or "Outstanding," when used with reference to Debt Securities, shall, subject to the provisions of , mean all Debt Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except:
Section 9.04
     "": The terms "Debt Securityholder," "Holder," "holder of Debt Securities," or other similar terms shall mean any Person in whose name at the time a particular Debt Security is registered on the register kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof.
Debt Securityholder or Holder
     "": The term "Depositary" shall have the meaning specified in .
Depositary
Section 2.11
     "": The term "Eligible Obligations" shall mean obligations as a result of the deposit of which (along with the simultaneous deposit, if any, of money and/or U.S. Government Obligations) the relevant series of Debt Securities are rated in the highest generic long-term debt rating category assigned to legally defeased debt by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies.
Eligible Obligations
     "": The term "Event of Default" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
Event of Default
     "": The term "Funded Debt" shall mean (a) any Indebtedness maturing by its terms more than one year from the date of the issuance thereof, including any Indebtedness renewable or extendible at the option of the obliger to a date later than one year from the date of the original issuance thereof, excluding any portion of Indebtedness which is included in current liabilities and (b) any Indebtedness which may be payable from the proceeds of Funded Debt as defined in clause (a) of this definition pursuant to the terms of such Funded Debt.
Funded Debt
 
     "": The term "Global Debt Security" shall have the meaning specified in .
Global Debt Security
Section 2.11
     "": The term "Guarantee" shall mean any of the joint and several or several, as the case may be, and unconditional and unsubordinated guarantees by the respective Guarantors of the due and punctual payment of principal of and premium, if any, on the Debt Securities of any series so designated as guaranteed, as provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Debt Securities are issued, and certain other obligations of the Company pursuant to this Indenture when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Debt Securities of such series and this Indenture.
Guarantee
Section 2.02
     "": The term "Guarantor" shall mean each of Cooper Parent and, in respect to the applicable series of Debt Securities designated as guaranteed, as provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Debt Securities are issued, the Subsidiaries, if any, so designated with respect to such series of Debt Securities as a guarantor for such Debt Securities, and the term "Guarantors" means, in respect to the applicable Debt Securities, all such Persons collectively; and, subject to the provisions of shall mean their respective successors and assigns.
Guarantor or Guarantors
Section 2.02
Article Twelve
     "": The term "Indebtedness" of any Person shall mean all indebtedness for money borrowed which is created, assumed, incurred or guaranteed in any manner by such Person or for which such Person is otherwise responsible or liable.
Indebtedness
     "": The term "Indenture" shall mean this instrument as originally executed or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented. The term "Indenture", with respect to a particular series of Debt Securities, also shall include the terms of such particular series of Debt Securities as contemplated by , whether or not a supplemental indenture is entered into with respect thereto.
Indenture
Section 2.02
     "": The term "Intangible Assets" shall mean all goodwill, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, and all other items that would be treated as intangibles on the consolidated balance sheet of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries prepared under generally accepted accounting principles.
Intangible Assets
     "": The term "Judgment Currency" shall have the meaning specified in .
Judgment Currency
Section 15.11
     "": The term "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien, charge or other encumbrance.
Lien
     "": The term "Officers' Certificate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by two officers of such Person, one of whom shall be the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President or the Chief Financial Officer, and the other of whom shall be the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Person, and delivered to the Trustee. Wherever
Officers' Certificate
 
this Indenture requires that an Officers' Certificate be signed also by an accountant or other expert, such accountant or other expert (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture) may be in the employ of the Company or the respective Guarantor. Each such certificate issued by the Company or a Guarantor, as the case may be, shall include the statements provided for in if and to the extent required by the provisions of such Section. One of the officers executing an officers' certificate in accordance with hereof shall be the (i) President or Chief Executive Officer, (ii) the Chief Financial Officer, or (iii) the chief accounting officer or Controller, of the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable.
Section 15.05
Section 5.08
     "": The term "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or a Guarantor, as applicable. Each such opinion issued by the Company shall include the statements provided for in if and to the extent required by the provisions of such Section.
Opinion of Counsel
Section 15.05
     "": The term "Payor" shall have the meaning specified in .
Payor
Section 5.09
     "": The term "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "": The term "principal office of the Trustee," or other similar term, shall mean the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Principal Office of the Trustee
     "": The term "Principal Property" shall mean (A) any manufacturing plant located in the continental United States, or manufacturing equipment located in any such manufacturing plant (together with the land on which such plant is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof), owned or leased on the first date on which a Debt Security is authenticated by the Trustee or thereafter acquired or leased by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary, other than (i) any property which the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent determines is not of material importance to the total business conducted, or assets owned, by Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries, as an entirety, or (ii) any portion of any such property which the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent determines not to be of material importance to the use or operation of such property; and (B) any Shares or Indebtedness issued by any Restricted Subsidiary. "" does not include any plant owned or leased jointly or in common with one or more Persons other than Cooper Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries in which the aggregate interest of Cooper Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries does not exceed fifty percent (50%). "" means manufacturing equipment in such manufacturing plants used directly in the production of Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's products and does not include office equipment, computer equipment, rolling stock and other equipment not directly used in the production of Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's products.
Principal Property
Manufacturing plant
Manufacturing equipment
     "": The term "Relevant Tax Jurisdiction" shall have the meaning specified in .
Relevant Tax Jurisdiction
Section 5.09
     "": The term "Required Currency" shall have the meaning specified in .
Required Currency
Section 15.11
 
     "": The term "Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, shall mean any officer of the Trustee having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, or to whom corporate trust matters are referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
     "": The term "Restricted Subsidiary" shall mean the Company and any other Subsidiary substantially all the property of which is located within the continental United States, other than (i) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in financing, including, without limitation, lending on the security of, purchasing or discounting (with or without recourse) receivables, leases, obligations or other claims arising from or in connection with the purchase or sale of products or services, (ii) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in leasing or insurance, (iii) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in financing Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's operations outside the continental United States, or (iv) a Subsidiary included in the Tools segment of Cooper Parent's consolidated operations which for purposes of this Indenture includes Cooper Industries, LLC and any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof.
Restricted Subsidiary
     ": The term "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" shall mean any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary whether such Principal Property is now owned or hereafter acquired (except for leases for a term of not more than three years and except for leases between Cooper Parent and a Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries and except for leases of property executed prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of, the acquisition, the completion of construction, including any improvements or alterations on real property, or the commencement of commercial operation of such property), which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by Cooper Parent or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person.
"
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     "": The term "Secured Indebtedness" of any Person shall mean Indebtedness secured by any Lien upon property (including Shares or Indebtedness issued by any Restricted Subsidiary) owned by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary.
Secured Indebtedness
     "": The term "Shares" shall mean: (i) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock; (ii) in the case of an association or a business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock; (iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited); (iv) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person; and (iv) all warrants, options or other rights to acquire any of the interests described in the preceding clauses (i) through (iv) (but excluding any Debt Security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, any of the interests described in the preceding clauses (i) through (iv)).
Shares
     "": The term "Subsidiary" shall mean any Person a majority of the Voting Shares of which are at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by Cooper Parent or by one or more Subsidiaries, and which is consolidated in Cooper Parent's latest consolidated financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or provided generally to Cooper Parent's shareholders.
Subsidiary
 
     "": The term "Trustee" shall mean Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation, and, subject to the provisions of hereof, shall mean its successors and assigns as Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Debt Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of such series.
Trustee
Article Eight
     "": The term "Trust Indenture Act of 1939" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as it was in force at the date of execution of this Indenture, except as provided in ; , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as amended.
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
Section 11.01(j)
provided however
     "": The term "U.S. Government Obligations" shall mean securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case under clause (i) or (ii) are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
U.S. Government Obligations
provided
     "": The term "Voting Shares" shall mean, as to Shares of any Person as of any date means the Shares of such Person pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers, general partners or trustees of any Person (regardless of whether, at the time, Shares of any other class or classes shall have, or might have, voting power by reason of the occurrence of any contingency) or, with respect to a partnership (whether general or limited), any general partner interest in such partnership.
Voting Shares
     SECTION 2.01. ; . The aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities that may be issued by the Company and authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Debt Securities may, at the election of and as authorized by the Board of Directors to be evidenced by a Board Resolution, be issued in one or more series, and shall be designated generally as debentures, notes, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, with such further particular designations added or incorporated in such title for the Debt Securities of any particular series as the Board of Directors may determine as provided in . Each Debt Security shall bear upon the
Issuable in Series
Unlimited Aggregate Principal Amount
Section 2.02
 
face thereof the designation so selected for the series to which it belongs and shall be dated the date of its authentication. All Debt Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in the Certified Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto provided in the Certified Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto provided to the Trustee pursuant to .
Section 2.02
     SECTION 2.02. . At any time, and from time to time, after the execution of this Indenture, Debt Securities of each of the series created pursuant to the provisions hereof may be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee and shall be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to, or upon the order of, the Company upon receipt by the Trustee of:
Documents Required for Issuance of Each Series of Debt Securities
     (A) a Certified Resolution, or an indenture supplemental hereto, setting forth:
 
 
 
     If all the Debt Securities of a series are not to be issued at one time and if the Certified Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto establishing such series shall so permit, an Officers' Certificate may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Debt Securities and determining the terms of particular Debt Securities of such series, such as interest rate, maturity date, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
     If all Debt Securities of a series are not to be issued at any one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Certified Resolution, Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel provided for in this at the time of issuance of each Debt Security of such series if instead such documents are delivered at or prior to the time of issuance of the first Debt Security of such series.
Section 2.02
     The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Debt Securities under this if the Trustee determines that such actions as provided under this Section to be taken by the Company may not lawfully be taken by the Company or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or board of trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees or Responsible Officers shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
Section 2.02
     SECTION 2.03. . The Debt Securities shall be issuable only as registered securities without coupons (subject to in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by , provided that in the absence of such specifications with regard to any series of the Debt Securities, the Debt
Denominations; Certificate of Authentication
Section 11.
01(d)
)
Section 2.02
 
Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof.
     The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Debt Securities shall be in substantially the following form:
     This [note, bond, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness] is one of the series of Debt Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     SECTION 2.04. . The Debt Securities shall be signed manually or in facsimile in the name and on behalf of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, and attested manually or in facsimile by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Only such Debt Securities as shall bear a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided in Section 2.03, executed manually by the Trustee, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. Such certificate by the Trustee upon any Debt Security executed by the Company shall be conclusive evidence that the Debt Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Execution of Debt Securities
     In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed any of the Debt Securities shall cease to be such officer before the Debt Securities so signed shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, or disposed of by the Company, such Debt Securities nevertheless may be authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the Person who signed such Debt Securities had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Debt Security may be signed on behalf of the Company by such Persons as, at the actual date of the execution of such Debt Security, shall be the proper officers of the Company, although at the date of the execution of this Indenture any such Person was not such an officer.
     SECTION 2.05. . Debt Securities may be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities of the same series and date of maturity of other authorized denominations. Debt Securities to be exchanged shall be surrendered at the office or agency to be maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City and State of New York, as provided in , and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor, the Debt Security or Debt Securities that the Debt Securityholder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive.
Exchange and Registration of Transfer of Debt Securities
Section 5.02
     The Company or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company shall keep, at said office or agency, a register in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may
 
prescribe, the Company, or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company, shall register Debt Securities and shall register the transfer of Debt Securities as provided in this Article Two. Such Debt Security register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. If the Debt Security register is not kept by the Trustee it shall at all reasonable times be open for inspection by the Trustee. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Debt Security at such office or agency, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees, a new Debt Security or Debt Securities of the same series and date of maturity for an equal aggregate principal amount. The Company hereby appoints the Trustee to be Debt Security registrar, but reserves the right to change the Debt Security registrar or to itself act as Debt Security registrar.
     All Debt Securities presented for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption or payment shall (if so required by the Company or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer (in form satisfactory to the Company or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company) duly executed, by the holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
     No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Debt Securities, but the Company, the Trustee or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
     The Company or any Debt Security registrar appointed by the Company shall not be required to exchange or register the transfer of (a) any Debt Securities for a period of fifteen days next preceding any selection of Debt Securities to be redeemed, or (b) any Debt Securities selected, called or being called for redemption.
     SECTION 2.06. . In case any temporary or definitive Debt Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company in its discretion may execute, and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Debt Security of the same series and date of maturity in the same principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Debt Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Debt Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Debt Security shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and to the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Debt Security and of the ownership thereof.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Debt Securities
     The Trustee shall authenticate any such substituted Debt Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any officer of the Company. Upon the issuance of any substituted Debt Security, the Company or the Trustee may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. In case any Debt Security which has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substituted Debt Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (upon surrender thereof in the case of a
 
mutilated Debt Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Debt Security and of the ownership thereof.
     Every substituted Debt Security of any series issued pursuant to the provisions of this by virtue of the fact that any Debt Security of such series is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Debt Security of such series shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Debt Securities of such series duly issued hereunder. All Debt Securities of any series shall be held and owned upon the express condition that, to the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Debt Securities of such series and shall preclude any and all other rights or remedies notwithstanding (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
Section 2.06
     SECTION 2.07. . Pending the preparation of definitive Debt Securities of any series, the Company may execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Debt Securities of such series (printed, lithographed or otherwise produced). Temporary Debt Securities shall be issuable in any authorized denomination and substantially in the form of the definitive Debt Securities, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Debt Securities, all as may be determined by the Company and the Trustee. Every such temporary Debt Security shall be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions, in substantially the same manner and with the same effect as the definitive Debt Securities. Without unreasonable delay the Company will cause to be prepared, and will execute and deliver to the Trustee definitive Debt Securities of such series, whereupon any or all temporary Debt Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor at the office or agency of the Company, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Debt Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Debt Securities of the same series and date of maturity. Such exchange shall be made by the Company at its own expense and without any charge therefor except that the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Until so exchanged, the temporary Debt Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Debt Securities of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Temporary Debt Securities
     SECTION 2.08. . All Debt Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer, shall, if surrendered to the Company or any paying agent or any Debt Security registrar, be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation and promptly cancelled by it, in accordance with its then customary procedures or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly cancelled by it in accordance with its then customary procedures, and no Debt Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. Upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee may destroy cancelled Debt Securities and deliver a certificate of such destruction to the Company. If the Company shall acquire any of the Debt
Cancellation of Debt Securities Paid, Etc
 
Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Debt Securities unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
     SECTION 2.09. . All Debt Securities of each series issued under this Indenture shall in all respects be equally and ratably entitled to the benefits hereof with respect to such series without preference, priority or distinction on account of the actual time or times of the authentication and delivery or maturity of the Debt Securities of such series.
Debt Securities to be Treated Equally
     SECTION 2.10. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certified Resolution or one or more indentures supplemental hereto setting forth the terms on any series of Debt Securities, interest on the Debt Securities of such series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
     SECTION 2.11. . For the purposes of this Indenture, the term "" shall mean a member of, or participant in, a Depositary; the term "" shall mean, with respect to Debt Securities issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities, the clearing agency registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 designated as Depositary in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, pursuant to , and if at any time there is more than one such agency, "" as used with respect to the Debt Securities shall mean the respective Depositary with respect to a particular series of Debt Securities; and the term "" shall mean a global certificate evidencing all or part of the series of Debt Securities, executed by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and issued to the Depositary for the series or such portion of the series, and registered in the name of such Depositary or its nominee.
Global Debt Securities; Depositary
Agent Member
Depositary
Section 2.02
Depositary
Global Debt Security
     If a particular series of Debt Securities are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities, as specified in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, pursuant to , then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver each such Global Debt Security, which (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in a principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of such series to be represented by such Global Debt Security, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Debt Security or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (iv) unless otherwise specified in such Certified Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto, shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "THIS DEBT SECURITY IS A GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE."
Section 2.02
Section 2.03
 
     Notwithstanding , except as otherwise specified in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, as contemplated by , any Global Debt Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. A Global Debt Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to this if (x)(i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Debt Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the Company is unable to arrange for a qualified successor, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that all Global Debt Securities of any series then outstanding shall be exchangeable for definitive Debt Securities of such series in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, with respect to the Debt Securities of the series represented by such Global Debt Security has occurred and is continuing. Any Global Debt Security of such series that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for definitive Debt Securities of such series in registered form, bearing interest (if any) at the same rate or pursuant to the same formula, having the same date of issuance, redemption provisions, if any, currency of payment, date of maturity and other terms and of differing denominations aggregating a like amount. Such definitive Debt Securities of such series shall be registered in the names of the owners of the beneficial interests in such Global Debt Securities of such series as such names are from time to time provided by the relevant participants in the Depositary holding such Global Debt Securities (as such participants are identified from time to time by such Depositary).
Section 2.05
Section 2.02
Section 2.11
     No Global Debt Security may be transferred except as a whole (i) by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or (ii) by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or (iii) by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. Except as provided above, owners solely of beneficial interest in a Global Debt Security shall not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Debt Securities of such series in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under this Indenture.
     At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular series of Global Debt Securities have been exchanged for definitive Debt Securities or a particular Global Debt Security of a series has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Debt Security shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with . At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Debt Security is exchanged for a definitive Debt Security or a particular Global Debt Security of a series has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in part and not in whole, the principal amount of Debt Securities of such series represented by such Global Debt Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Debt Security, by the Trustee, the custodian of such Debt Security or the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee, to reflect such reduction.
Section 2.08
     In the event that a Global Debt Security is surrendered for redemption in part pursuant to or , the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Debt Security, without service charge, a new Global Debt Security in a denomination and tenor equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal for the Global Debt Security so surrendered.
Article Three
Four
 
     Neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of any beneficial ownership interest in any Global Debt Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interest. The Agent Members shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Debt Security held on their behalf by a Depositary, and such Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the owner of such Global Debt Security for all purposes whatsoever.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by a Depositary or impair, as between a Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of a Debt Security of any series, including without limitation the granting of proxies or other authorization of participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under this Indenture.
     SECTION 2.12. . The Company in issuing the Debt Securities of any series may use one or more "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption or repurchase as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on such Debt Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption or repurchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption or repurchase shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
provided
     SECTION 3.01. . The provisions of this shall be applicable to any sinking fund established in or pursuant to a Certified Resolution under or one or more indentures supplemental hereto for the retirement of Debt Securities of any series, except as otherwise specified in such Certified Resolution or supplemental indenture.
Applicability of Article
Article Three
Section 2.02
     The sinking fund payment required to be made under the terms of the Debt Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any sinking fund payment that is not required to be made but is permitted by the terms of the Debt Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". Unless otherwise provided for by the terms of the Debt Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in . Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of the Debt Security of any series as provided for by the terms of the Debt Securities of such series.
Section 3.02
     SECTION 3.02. . The Company may, at its option, as specified by it in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee pursuant to reduce and satisfy the obligation to make a mandatory sinking fund
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Debt Securities
Section 3.03
 
payment in the amount of the redemption price, together with accrued interest to the redemption date on Debt Securities otherwise to be redeemed, of any Debt Securities (a) acquired by the Company and delivered by it to the Trustee for cancellation or (b) redeemed otherwise than through the operation of the mandatory sinking fund, and in each case under clauses (a) and (b) delivered or redeemed on or prior to the date of delivery of such Officers' Certificate and not theretofore made the basis for a reduction of a mandatory sinking fund payment.
     SECTION 3.03. . Not less than sixty days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Debt Securities (or such later date as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next succeeding sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Debt Securities of that series pursuant to and will also deliver to the Trustee any Debt Securities to be so credited which have not theretofore been delivered. Not less than thirty days before each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Debt Securities of such series to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in . Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Debt Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in . In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such Officers' Certificate when due (or to deliver the Debt Securities specified in this the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Debt Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Debt Securities as provided in and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series.
Redemption of Debt Securities for Sinking Fund
Section 3.02
Article Four
Article Four
Article Four
Section 3.03)
Section 3.02
     Any sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional) made in cash plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in cash which shall equal or exceed $100,000 (or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request) with respect to the Debt Securities of any particular series shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund payment date on which such payment is made (or, if such payment is made before a sinking fund payment date, on the sinking fund payment date next succeeding the date of such payment) to the redemption of such Debt Securities at the redemption price specified in such Debt Securities for operation of the sinking fund, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption. Subject to the provisions of , any sinking fund payment not so applied or allocated by the Trustee to the redemption of Debt Securities shall be added to the next cash sinking fund payment received by the Trustee for such series and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this . Subject to the provisions of , any and all sinking fund payments with respect to the Debt Securities of any particular series held by the Trustee on the last sinking fund payment date with respect to Debt Securities of such series shall be applied by the Trustee, together with other moneys, if necessary, to be deposited sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of the Debt Securities of such series at maturity.
Section 13.05
Section 3.03
Section 13.05
 
     SECTION 4.01. . The provisions of this shall be applicable to any redemption provisions established in or pursuant to a Certified Resolution under or one or more indentures supplemental hereto with respect to any series of Debt Securities, except as otherwise provided in such Certified Resolution under or supplemental indenture.
Applicability of Article
Article Four
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
     SECTION 4.02. . In case the Company shall desire to exercise the right to redeem all, or, as the case may be, any part of the Debt Securities of any series, as evidenced by a Board Resolution, it shall fix a date for redemption and give notice of such redemption by first class mail postage prepaid at least thirty and not more than sixty days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the holders of Debt Securities so to be redeemed as a whole or in part at their last addresses as the same appear on the Debt Security register. The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Debt Security designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Debt Security.
Notice of Redemption; Selection of Debt Securities
     Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price at which such Debt Securities are to be redeemed, whether the redemption is through operation of a sinking, purchase or analogous fund, the place of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Debt Securities, the CUSIP number, that interest accrued (if any) to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice, and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue. If fewer than all the Debt Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall specify the Debt Securities to be redeemed. In case any Debt Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Debt Security, a new Debt Security or Debt Securities of the same series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
     On or prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this , the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Company is acting as its own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Debt Securities so called for redemption at the applicable redemption price, together with accrued interest (if any) to the date fixed for redemption.
Section 4.02
Section 5.04
     If fewer than all the Debt Securities of a series are to be redeemed the Company will give the Trustee notice not less than sixty days prior to the redemption date as to the aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities of such series to be redeemed and the Trustee shall select, in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair, the Debt Securities of such series or portions thereof to be redeemed.
 
     SECTION 4.03. . If notice of redemption has been given as provided in , the Debt Securities or portions of Debt Securities so to be redeemed shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued (if any) to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after said date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Debt Securities at the redemption price, together with interest accrued (if any) to said date) interest on such Debt Securities or such portions of Debt Securities shall cease to accrue. Upon presentation and surrender of such Debt Securities at the place of payment in said notice specified, the said Debt Securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued thereon (if any) to the date fixed for redemption.
Payment of Debt Securities Called for Redemption
Section 4.02
     If any Debt Security or portion thereof called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and premium, if any, shall, until paid, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate borne by such Debt Security or such portion thereof, or at such other rate provided in the Certified Resolution relating to such Debt Security or the supplemental indenture under which such Debt Security is issued. Upon presentation and surrender of any Debt Security redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Debt Security or Debt Securities of the same series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Debt Security so presented and surrendered.
     SECTION 4.04. . The Company shall be entitled to redeem all, but not part, of the Debt Securities of a series if as a result of (x) a change in or an amendment to the laws, regulations or rulings of the Relevant Tax Jurisdiction, (y) any change in or amendment to any official position regarding the application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, or (z) any change in or amendment to any official position regarding the application or interpretation of, or any execution of or amendment to, any treaty or treaties affecting taxation to which such Relevant Tax Jurisdiction is a party, in each case, which change or amendment is announced or execution or amendment occurred, as the case may be, after the date of the prospectus supplement used in connection with the issuance of the Debt Securities of such series (a ""), the Payor is or would be obligated to pay, on the next following date on which any amount would be payable with respect to such Debt Securities, Additional Amounts pursuant to and the payment of such Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the Payor after taking reasonable measures available to it. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , the Company must (i) deliver to the Trustee, before the Company publishes or mails any notice of redemption of the Debt Securities that are being redeemed on the basis of this , an officers' certificate to the effect that the Payor cannot avoid its obligation to pay Additional Amounts by taking reasonable measures available to it and an opinion of independent legal counsel of recognized standing stating that the Payor has or will become obligated to pay Additional Amounts as a result of such Change in Tax Law and (ii) provide the Holders with notice of the intended redemption at least 30 days and no more than 60 days before the date of redemption. The redemption price will equal the principal amount of the Debt Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption (subject to the right of holders of record of such Debt Securities on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Optional Redemption For Tax Reasons
Change in Tax Law
Section 5.09
Article Four
Section 4.04
 
     SECTION 5.01. . With respect to each series of Debt Securities, the Company covenants and agrees that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities of such series at the place, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the Debt Securities of such series.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
     SECTION 5.02. . So long as any of the Debt Securities remains outstanding, the Company will maintain in the City and State of New York, an office or agency (which office or agency may differ for different series of Debt Securities), initially to be located at the principal office of the Trustee, where the Debt Securities may be presented and surrendered for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of Debt Securities or of this Indenture may be served and where Debt Securities may be presented and surrendered for payment, provided that the Company may maintain in such City a separate office or agency for one or more of the foregoing purposes. The Company will give to the Trustee prompt written notice of the change in the location of such office or agency. In case the Company shall fail to maintain any such office or agency or shall fail to give such notice of the location or of any change in the location thereof, presentations and surrenders may be made and notices and demands may be served at the principal office of the Trustee.
Office for Notices and Payments, Etc
     SECTION 5.03. . The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in , a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder.
Appointments to Fill Vacancies in Trustee's Office
Section 8.10
     SECTION 5.04. . (a) If the Company shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to any series of Debt Securities, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this , that
Provision as to Paying Agent
Section 5.04
     (1) it will hold all sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debt Securities of such series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any other obligor on the Debt Securities of such series) in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Debt Securities of such series; and
     (2) it will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on the Debt Securities of such series) to make any payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debt Securities of such series when the same shall be due and payable.
 
     SECTION 5.05. . Cooper Parent will not, and Cooper Parent will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, guarantee or incur any Secured Indebtedness without in any such case effectively providing concurrently with the creation, assumption, guarantee or incurrence of any such Secured Indebtedness that the Debt Securities shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of Cooper Parent, prior to) such Secured Indebtedness but only for so long and during such time as (i) such Secured Indebtedness shall exist and be secured by a Lien upon property (including Shares or Indebtedness issued by any Restricted Subsidiary) owned by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) the aggregate of all Secured Indebtedness not secured solely by Liens described in clauses (a) through (h) of this and all Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to, and not excluded from this calculation by, , exceeds 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets; , , that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to Secured Indebtedness secured by:
Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent and Restricted Subsidiaries
Section 5.05
Section 5.06
provided
however
 
 
     SECTION 5.06. . Cooper Parent will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction covering any Principal Property of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary unless (A) the sum of (i) the Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, (ii) all Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to all other Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into by Cooper Parent and any Restricted Subsidiary after the date on which a Debt Security is authenticated by the Trustee under this Indenture, except for Sale and Leaseback Transactions of a Restricted Subsidiary entered into prior to becoming a Restricted Subsidiary, and (iii) the aggregate amount of all Secured Indebtedness outstanding (excluding the Secured Indebtedness permitted by clauses (a) through (h) of and further without regard to Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Debt Securities are secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Indebtedness) does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets or (B) an amount equal to the greater of (i) the amount of the net proceeds to Cooper Parent or the Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (ii) the fair market value of the property so leased, as determined by Cooper Parent's Board of Directors (in the case of (i) or (ii), after repayment of, or otherwise taking into account, as the case may be, the amount of any Secured Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering such property which Secured Indebtedness existed immediately prior to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction) is applied to retirement of Funded Debt within one year after the consummation of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; , the preceding limitations contained in this shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded from Attributable Debt in any computation under or this , Attributable Debt with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction if:
Sale and Leaseback Transactions
Section 5.05
provided, however
Section 5.06
Section 5.05
Section 5.06
     (1) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is entered into in connection with the issuance of industrial revenue or private activity bonds the interest on which is exempt from Federal income taxation pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
     (2) Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary applies an amount equal to the net proceeds (after repayment of any Secured Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering such Principal Property which Secured Indebtedness existed immediately before such Sale and Leaseback Transaction) of the sale or transfer of the Principal Property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction to investment (whether for acquisition, improvement, repair, alteration or construction costs) in another Principal Property within one year before or after such sale or transfer;
 
     (3) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is entered into by a Person prior to the date on which such Person became a Restricted Subsidiary or arises thereafter pursuant to contractual commitments entered into by such Person prior to and not in contemplation of such Person's becoming a Restricted Subsidiary; or
          (4) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is entered into by a Person prior to the time such Person was merged or consolidated with Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or prior to the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such Person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or arises thereafter pursuant to contractual commitments entered into by such Person prior to and not in contemplation of such merger, consolidation, sale, lease or other disposition.
     SECTION 5.07. . Cooper Parent and the Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in or hereof or provided in a respective Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to hereof or in any indenture supplemental hereto with respect to the Debt Securities of any series, if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of such series at the time outstanding shall, by action of such Debt Securityholders as provided in , either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of Cooper Parent and the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Waiver of Covenants
Section 5.05
5.06
Section 2.02(A)
Section 9.01
     SECTION 5.08. . So long as any of the Debt Securities remain outstanding, the Company and Cooper Parent will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of Cooper Parent (which on the date hereof ends on December 31) ending after the date any series of Debt Securities is first issued hereunder, an Officers' Certificate (which need not contain the statements provided for in ), stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the respective signer thereof (i) the Company is in default in the performance and observance of the terms, provisions and conditions of or and any other covenant of the Company provided in a Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to hereof or an indenture supplemental hereto, and (ii) Cooper Parent is in default in the performance and observance of the terms, provisions and conditions of or and any other covenant of Cooper Parent; provided in a Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to hereof or an indenture supplemental hereto; and if the Company or Cooper Parent shall be in default, respectively specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge; provided, however, neither the Company nor Cooper Parent shall be obligated to make any such statement with respect to any term, provision or condition specified in this if such term, provision or condition, as the case may be, is applicable only to a series of Debt Securities none of the Debt Securities of which are outstanding or with respect to which series the Company has been discharged pursuant to .
Certificate to Trustee
Section 15.05
Section 5.01
5.02
Section 2.02
Section 5.05
5.06
Section 2.02
Section 5.08
Article Thirteen
     SECTION 5.09. . If any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges are imposed by the jurisdiction, other than the United States, where
Payment of Additional Amounts
 
Cooper Parent or a successor (a "") is organized or otherwise considered to be a resident for tax purposes, any jurisdiction, other than the United States, from or through which the Payor makes a payment on the Debt Securities, or, in each case, any political organization or governmental authority thereof or therein having the power to tax (the "") in respect of any payments under the Debt Securities, including any Guarantee with respect to any series of Debt Securities, the Payor shall pay to each Holder of a Debt Security, to the extent it may lawfully do so, such additional amounts ("") as may be necessary in order that the net amounts paid to such Holder will be not less than the amount specified in such Debt Security to which such holder is entitled; provided, however, the Payor shall not be required to make any payment of Additional Amounts for or on account of:
Payor
Relevant Tax Jurisdiction
Additional Amounts
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of the principal of, or any interest on, any Debt Security to any Holder who is a fiduciary or partnership or limited liability company or other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment to the extent such payment would be required by the laws of the Relevant Tax Jurisdiction to be included in the income for
 
tax purposes of a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary or a member of such partnership, limited liability company or beneficial owner who would not have been entitled to such Additional Amounts had it been the holder of such Debt Security.
The Payor shall provide the Trustee with the official acknowledgment of the relevant tax authority (or, if such acknowledgment is not available, a certified copy thereof) evidencing the payment of the withholding taxes by the Payor. Copies of such documentation shall be made available to the holders of the Debt Securities or the paying agent, as applicable, upon request therefor.
     SECTION 6.01. . The Company agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee, semi-annually, not more than fifteen days after each record date relating to any series of Debt Securities, or if any series has no record date, not more than fifteen days after January 1 and July 1 in each year, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing within thirty days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the holders of the applicable series of Debt Securities, as of a date not more than fifteen days prior to the time such information is furnished; provided, however, that so long as the Trustee shall be the Debt Security registrar for a series, no such list for a series need be furnished.
Debt Securityholders' Lists
     SECTION 6.02. . (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of the Debt Securityholders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in and the names and addresses of Debt Securityholders received by the Trustee. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
Preservation and Disclosure of Lists
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
     SECTION 6.03. . (a) The Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, agrees to file with the Trustee, within thirty days after the
Reports by the Company or Cooper Parent
 
Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, is required to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as said Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, may be required to file with said Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or, if the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such Sections, then to file with the Trustee and said Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by said Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations.
     SECTION 6.04. . (a) Within 60 days after May 15 or each year commencing with the first May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to the Debt Securityholders as their names and addresses appear in the Security Registry, a brief report dated as of such May 15, to the extent required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Reports by the Trustee
 
     SECTION 7.01. . "" with respect to any series of Debt Securities means each one of the events specified below in this , unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or is specifically deleted or modified in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debt Securities is issued, and any other events as may be specified in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debt Securities is issued. No Event of Default for a particular series of Debt Securities shall constitute an Event of Default for any other series of Debt Securities. In case one or more of the following Events of Default shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
Event of Default
Section 7.01
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
 
then in the case in which any Event of Default specified in or shall have occurred, all Applicable Debt Securities (as hereinafter defined) shall automatically become due and payable immediately without further action or notice, and in each and every case in which any other Event of Default shall have occurred and shall be continuing, unless the principal of all of the Applicable Debt Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Debt Securities then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by holders of the Applicable Debt Securities), may declare the principal of all the Applicable Debt Securities (or such portion thereof as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debt Securities are issued) and the accrued interest to be due and payable immediately and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything contained in this Indenture or in the Applicable Debt Securities to the contrary notwithstanding. In the case of Applicable Debt Securities issued bearing no interest or below-market interest, the amount that may be declared due and payable immediately shall be the portion of the principal specified in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debt Securities are issued. The term "" shall mean the Debt Securities of a series with respect to which an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and unless otherwise specifically provided with respect to a particular series of Debt Securities in the Certified Resolutions under relating to such series or any indentures supplemental to this Indenture under which such series of Debt Securities is issued shall refer to Debt Securities on a series by series basis such that the provisions hereof shall be applied separately to each series of Debt Securities affected by such Event of Default. Any declaration pursuant to this is, however, subject to the condition that if, at any time after the principal of the Applicable Debt Securities shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the money due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, (a) the Company shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee (i) a sum sufficient to pay all matured interest upon all the Applicable Debt Securities and the principal of and premium, if any, on any and all Applicable Debt Securities which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration, with interest on overdue interest (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) and on such principal and premium, if any, at the rate borne by the Applicable Debt Securities, or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debt Securities are issued, to the date of such payment or deposit, and (ii) all sums paid or advances made by the Trustee hereunder and all amounts owing the Trustee under , and (b) any and all Events of Default under this Indenture with respect to the Applicable Debt Securities, other than the nonpayment of principal of and accrued interest on Applicable Debt Securities which shall have become due by acceleration, shall have been remedied, cured or waived, then and in every such case the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Debt Securities then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may waive all defaults related to such Applicable Debt Securities and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences; but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 7.01 (e), (f), (h)
(i)
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
Applicable Debt Securities
Section 2.02
Section 7.01
Section 2.02
Section 8.06
 
     In case the Trustee or any of the Debt Securityholders shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee or such Debt Securityholders, then and in every such case the Company and the Trustee and such Debt Securityholders shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee and such Debt Securityholders shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
     SECTION 7.02. . The Company covenants that (a) in case defaults shall be made in the payment of any interest upon any of the Applicable Debt Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty days, or (b) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, on any of the Applicable Debt Securities as and when the same shall have become due and payable (subject to subsection (c) below), whether at maturity of the Applicable Debt Securities or upon redemption or by declaration or otherwise, or (c) in case default shall be made in the payment for any sinking, purchase or similar fund provided for in respect of any of the Applicable Debt Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty days, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Applicable Debt Securities, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all such Applicable Debt Securities for principal and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Applicable Debt Securities or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debt Securities are issued; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all amounts owing the Trustee under .
Payment of Applicable Debt Securities on Default; Suit Therefor
Section 2.02
Section 8.06
     In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or any other obligor on the Applicable Debt Securities and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor on the Applicable Debt Securities wherever situated the money adjudged or decreed to be payable.
     In case there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Company or any other obligor on the Debt Securities under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver or trustee shall have been appointed for the property of the Company or such other obligor, or in the case of any similar judicial proceedings relative to the Company or other obligor under the Debt Securities, or to the creditors or property of the Company or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Debt Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions
 
of this , shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise, to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal, premium and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Debt Securities, and to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any amounts owing the Trustee under ) and of the holders of Debt Securities allowed in such judicial proceedings relative to the Company or any other obligor on the Debt Securities, its or their creditors, or its or their property, and to collect and receive any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute the same after the deduction of its charges and expenses; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the holders of Debt Securities to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Debt Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amounts owing the Trustee under up to the date of such distribution.
Section 7.02
Section 8.06
Section 8.06
     All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Debt Securities of any series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Debt Securities of such series, or the production thereof on any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Debt Securities of such series.
     Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Debt Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Debt Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Debt Securityholder in any such proceeding.
     SECTION 7.03. . Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article Seven with respect to a series of Debt Securities shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such money, upon presentation of the several Debt Securities of such series, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid.
Application of Money Collected by Trustee
     First: To the payment of all amounts owing the Trustee under ;
Section 8.06
     Second: In case the principal on none of the Outstanding Debt Securities of such series shall have become due and be unpaid, to the payment of interest, if any, which has become due and is unpaid on the Debt Securities of such series, in the order of the maturity of such interest, with interest (to the extend permitted by applicable law and to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Debt Securities or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debt Securities is issued (such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto);
Section 2.02
     Third: In case the principal of any of the Outstanding Debt Securities of such series shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon the Debt Securities of such series for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if
 
any, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the Debt Securities of such series or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debt Securities is issued; and in case such money shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amounts so due and unpaid upon the Debt Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, if any, of interest over principal and premium, if any, or if any interest over any other interest, or of any Debt Security of such series over any other Debt Security of such series ratably to the aggregate of such principal, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any; and
Section 2.02
     Fourth: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its successors or assigns, or to whosoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
     SECTION 7.04. . No holder of any Applicable Debt Security of any series shall have any right by virtue of or by availing himself of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, in each case with respect to an Event of Default related to such Applicable Debt Securities, unless such Holder previously shall have given to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee written notice of default with respect to the Applicable Debt Securities of such series and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and unless also the Holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of such Applicable Debt Securities then outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee for sixty days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or proceeding and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee during such sixty-day period by the holders of a majority in principal amount of such outstanding Applicable Debt Securities, it being understood and intended and being expressly covenanted by the holder of every Debt Security of a series with every other holder of a Debt Security of such series and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Debt Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by availing himself or themselves of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holder of such Debt Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such Holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Debt Securities of such series.
Proceedings by Debt Securityholders
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Debt Security, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on such Debt Security, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Debt Security, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
     SECTION 7.05. . In case an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing hereunder with respect to any Applicable Debt Securities, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either by suit in equity or by action at law or by proceeding in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture with respect to such Applicable Debt Securities, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
Proceeding by Trustee
     SECTION 7.06. . All powers and remedies given by this to the Trustee or to the holders of Debt Securities of any series shall, to the extend permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Debt Securities of such series, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Debt Securities of a series to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of , every power and remedy given by this or by law to the Trustee or to the Debt Securityholders of a series may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Debt Securityholders of such series.
Remedies Cumulative and Continuing
Article Seven
Section 7.04
Article Seven
     SECTION 7.07. . The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of any series at the time outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of such series; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of ) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee being advised by counsel determines that the action or proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers shall determine that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability or would be unduly prejudicial to the holders of Debt Securities of such series not joining in such direction. Prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of the Debt Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of such series at the time outstanding may, on behalf of the holders of all of the Debt Securities of such series, waive any past default or Event of Default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences except a default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, or any of the Debt Securities of such series, or in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each outstanding Debt Security of such series affected. Upon any such waiver the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Debt Securities of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default (as defined in ) or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Whenever any default or Event of Default hereunder shall have been waived as permitted by this said default or Event of
Direction of Proceedings and Waiver of Defaults by Majority of Debt Securityholders
Section 8.01
Article Eleven
Section 7.08
Section 7.07
 
Default shall for all purposes of the Debt Securities of such series and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing.
     SECTION 7.08. . The Trustee shall, within ninety days after the occurrence of a default (as hereinafter defined) with respect to the Debt Securities of any series, mail to all holders of Debt Securities of each series, as the names and addresses of such holders appear upon the Debt Security register, notice of all each default known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such defaults shall have been cured before the giving of such notice (the term "" for the purpose of this being hereby defined to be any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Debt Securities of such series); and provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debt Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors or trustees, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Debt Securityholders of such series.
Notice of Defaults
default
Section 7.08
     SECTION 7.09. . All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Debt Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, have due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit institute by any Debt Securityholder, or group of Debt Securityholders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent in principal amount of the Debt Securities of any series outstanding, or to any suit instituted by any holder of a Debt Security of any series for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Debt Security of such series on or after the due date expressed in such Debt Security.
Undertaking to Pay Costs
Section 7.09
     SECTION 7.10. . The Company covenants and agrees (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
     SECTION 8.01. . The Trustee prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default which may have occurred and are continuing, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are
Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
 
specifically set forth in this Indenture. In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (which has not been cured or waived) the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
     No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
     (1) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;
 
     SECTION 8.02. . Except as otherwise provided in :
Reliance on Documents, Opinions, Etc
Section 8.01
 
     SECTION 8.03. . The recitals contained herein and in the Debt Securities (except in the Trustee's certificate of authentication) shall be taken as the statements of the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Debt Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any Debt Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Responsibility for Recitals, Etc
     SECTION 8.04. . The Trustee, any paying agent, Debt Security registrar or any other agent of the Company in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Debt Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent, Debt Security registrar or such other agent.
Trustee, Paying Agent or Debt Security Registrar May Own Debt Securities
     SECTION 8.05. . Subject to the provisions of , all money received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which it was received. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Money to Be Held in Trust
Section 13.04
     SECTION 8.06. . The Company agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation (which to the extent permitted by law shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), and the Company will pay or reimburse the
Compensation and Expenses of Trustee
 
Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Company and Cooper Parent jointly and severally also agree to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust or the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability in the premises. The obligation of the Company under this to compensate the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder. Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Debt Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Debt Securities.
Section 8.06
     When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in or , the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law. The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
Section 7.01 (e)
Section 7.01(f)
     SECTION 8.07. . Except as otherwise provided in , whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such Certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
Officers' Certificate as Evidence
Section 8.01
     SECTION 8.08. . If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Conflicting Interest of Trustee
     SECTION 8.09. . The Trustee hereunder shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least five million dollars, subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this , the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with provisions of this
Eligibility of Trustee
Section 8.09
 
, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in . Neither the Company nor a Person directly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company shall serve as Trustee.
Section 8.09
Section 8.10
     SECTION 8.10. . (a) The Trustee may at any time resign with respect to the Debt Securities of one or more series by giving written notice of such resignation to the Company. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor Trustee. If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within sixty days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee, or any holder of a Debt Security of such series who has been a bona fide holder of a Debt Security or Debt Securities of such series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of , on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.
Resignation or Removal of Trustee
Section 7.09
     (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of after written request therefor by the Company or by any Debt Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Debt Security or Debt Securities for at least six months, or
Section 8.08
          (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Debt Securityholder, or
          (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any case, the Company may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor Trustee, or, subject to the provisions of , any Debt Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Debt Security or Debt Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may, thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee.
Section 7.09
 
     SECTION 8.11. . Any successor Trustee appointed as provided in shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to its predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as Trustee herein; but nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or of the successor Trustee, the Trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of , execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights and powers of the Trustee so ceasing to act. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments in writing in order more fully and certainly to vest in and confirm to such successor Trustee all such rights and powers. Any Trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property or funds held or collected by such Trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.06.
Acceptance by Successor Trustee
Section 8.10
Section 8.06
     No successor Trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of and eligible under the provisions of .
Section 8.11
Section 8.08
Section 8.09
     In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the Guarantors (as applicable), the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein such successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Debt Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the
 
administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees as co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debt Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee (subject to the provisions of ) shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Debt Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, and upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to in this subsection.
Section 8.06
     SECTION 8.12. . Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
Succession by Merger, Etc
     In case at the time such successor Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture with respect to one or more series of Debt Securities, any of such Debt Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Debt Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Debt Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor Trustee may authenticate such Debt Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in such Debt Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or authenticate Debt Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
provided, however
     SECTION 8.13. Limitation on Rights of Trustee as a Creditor. The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.
     SECTION 9.01. . Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Debt
Action by Debt Securityholders
 
Securities of any series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action) the fact that at any time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage have joined therein may be evidenced (a) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by such Debt Securityholders in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, or (b) by the record of the holders of such Debt Securities voting in favor thereof at any meeting of such Debt Securityholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of , or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of such Debt Securityholders.
Article Ten
     SECTION 9.02. . Subject to the provisions of , and , proof of the execution of any instrument by a Debt Securityholder or his agent or proxy shall be sufficient if made in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The ownership of Debt Securities shall be proved by the Debt Security register or by a certificate of the Debt Security registrar.
Proof of Execution by Debt Securityholders
Sections 8.01
8.02
10.05
     The record of any Debt Securityholders' meeting shall be proved in the manner provided in .
Section 10.06
     SECTION 9.03. . Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of any Debt Security, the Company, the Trustee, or the paying agent and any Debt Security registrar may deem the Person in whose name any Debt Securities shall be registered upon the Debt Security register to be, and may treat him as, the absolute owner of such Debt Security (whether or not such Debt Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing on such Debt Security) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on such Debt Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Debt Security registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any registered holder for the time being, or upon his order shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for money payable upon any such Debt Security.
Who Deemed Absolute Owners
     SECTION 9.04. . In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, consent or waiver under this Indenture, Debt Securities which are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Debt Securities or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor on the Debt Securities shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding for the purpose of any such determination; provided that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, consent or waiver, only Debt Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Debt Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding for the purposes of this if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to vote such Debt Securities and that the pledgee is not a Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the
Company-Owned Debt Securities Disregarded
Section 9.04
 
Company or any such other obligor. In the case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee.
     SECTION 9.05. . At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in , of the taking of any action by the holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities of any series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Debt Security the serial number of which is shown by the evidence to be included in such Debt Securities the Holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its principal office and upon proof of holding as provided in , revoke such action so far as concerns such Debt Security. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Debt Security of any series shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Debt Security and of any Debt Security issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Debt Security.
Revocation of Consents; Future Holders Bound
Section 9.01
Section 9.02
     SECTION 10.01. . A meeting of Debt Securityholders may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten for any of the following purposes:
Purposes of Meetings
     (1) to give any notice to the Company or to the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to consent to the waiving of any default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Debt Securityholders pursuant to any of the provisions of ;
Article Seven
     (2) to remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee pursuant to the provisions of ;
Article Eight
     (3) to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of ; or
Section 11.02
     (4) to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
     SECTION 10.02. . The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Debt Securityholders to take any action specified in , to be held at such time and at such place in the City and State of New York or in the City of Houston, Texas, as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of the Debt Securityholders, setting forth the time and place of such meeting and in general terms the actions proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be mailed to holders of Debt Securities of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting at their addresses as they shall appear on the Debt Security register. Such notice shall be mailed not less than twenty nor more than ninety days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call of Meetings by Trustee
Section 10.01
 
     SECTION 10.03. . In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors, or the Holders of at least ten percent in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities then outstanding of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Debt Securityholders of all series that may be so affected by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed the notice of such meeting within twenty days after receipt of such request, then the Company or such Debt Securityholders may determine the time and the place in New York, New York, or in Houston, Texas for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in , by mailing notice thereof as provided in .
Call of Meetings by Company or Debt Securityholders
Section 10.01
Section 10.02
     SECTION 10.04. . To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Debt Securityholders a Person shall (a) be a holder of one or more Debt Securities of a series affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting or (b) be a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by a holder of one or more such Debt Securities. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Debt Securityholders shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
Qualifications for Voting
     SECTION 10.05. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Debt Securityholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Debt Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem fit.
Regulations
     The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Debt Securityholders as provided in , in which case the Company or the Debt Securityholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by majority vote of the meeting.
Section 10.03
     Subject to the provisions of , at any meeting each Debt Securityholder of a series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount (or corresponding denomination if the Debt Securities are not in U.S. dollars) (or such other principal amount equal to the authorized minimum denomination) of Debt Securities of such series held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Debt Security challenged as not outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote other than by virtue of Debt Securities of such series held by him or instruments in writing as aforesaid duly designating him as the Person to vote on behalf of other Debt Securityholders of such series. Any meeting of Debt Securityholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of or may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of Holders present, whether or not constituting a quorum, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
Section 9.04
Section 10.02
10.03
 
     SECTION 10.06. . The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Debt Securityholders of a series or all series to be affected thereby, as the case may be, shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the holders of Debt Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the serial number or numbers of the Debt Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Debt Securityholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as provided in Section 10.02. The record shall show the serial numbers of the Debt Securities voting in favor of or against any resolution. The record shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Company and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee.
Voting
     Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
     SECTION 11.01. . The Company, Cooper Parent and, as applicable, each other Guarantor, each when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may from time to time, without the consent of Holders, and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for one or more of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Debt Securityholders
 
 
     The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer and assignment of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to, but may in its discretion, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
     Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this may be executed by the Company, the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Debt Securities at the time outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of .
Section 11.01
Section 11.02
     SECTION 11.02. . With the consent (evidenced as provided in ) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time outstanding of each series to be affected, the Company and the Guarantors (as applicable), each when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date of the execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or Debt Securities of a series or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the Debt Securities of such series to be affected; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) change the fixed maturity (which term shall not include payments due pursuant to any sinking, purchase or analogous fund) of any Debt Securities, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, change the redemption provisions in any manner that would be adverse to any holder or adversely affect the right of repayment at the option of any Holder, change the coin or currency in which the principal of or any premium or interest thereon is payable, impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the stated maturity of any Debt Securities or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date or, in the case of repayment at the option of any holder, on or after the redemption date, or modify any of the provisions regarding the waiver of past defaults and the waiver of specified covenants by the Holders of the Debt Securities, without the consent of the holder of each Debt Security so affected, (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Debt Securities of any series, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of all Debt Securities of such series then outstanding or (iii) modify any of the foregoing, without the consent of the holder of each Debt Security so affected.
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Debt Securityholders
Section 9.01
     Upon the request of the Company and the Guarantors (as applicable), accompanied by a copy of the resolutions of each of their respective Boards of Directors certified by their respective Secretaries or any Assistant Secretaries authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indentures, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Debt Securityholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company and the Guarantors (as
 
applicable) in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
     It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Debt Securityholders under this to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 11.02
     SECTION 11.03. . Any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provision of this shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as then in effect. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this , this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitation of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantors (as applicable) and the holders of all of the Debt Securities or of the Debt Securities of any series affected, as the case may be, shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
Article Eleven
Article Eleven
     SECTION 11.04. . Debt Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this may, but need not, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company or the Trustee shall so determine, new Debt Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company's Board of Directors, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Debt Securities then outstanding.
Notation on Debt Securities
Article Eleven
     SECTION 11.05. . The Trustee, subject to the provisions of and , shall, in addition to the documents required by , receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this (i) is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this and (ii) complies with all conditions precedent relating to such supplemental indenture.
Evidence of Compliance of Supplemental Indenture to be Furnished Trustee
Sections 8.01
8.02
Section 15.05
Article Eleven
Article Eleven
     SECTION 12.01. . The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, Etc. Only on Certain Terms
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing
 
under the laws of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Debt Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice of lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relates to such transaction have been complied with; , the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however
Section 12.01
     SECTION 12.02. . Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ) shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and in respect of the Debt Securities and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 12.01
Section 12.01
     SECTION 12.03. . Cooper Parent shall not consolidate or amalgamate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Cooper Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, Cooper Parent's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Debt Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of Cooper Parent to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
 
          (3) Cooper Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relates to such transaction have been complied with; , the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however
Section 12.03
     SECTION 12.04. . Upon any consolidation, amalgamation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Cooper Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Cooper Parent herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, Cooper Parent (or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ), shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Debt Securities and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 12.03
Section 12.03
     SECTION 13.01. . When (a) the Company shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Debt Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Debt Securities of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in ) and not theretofore cancelled, or (b) all the Debt Securities of such series not theretofore cancelled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, funds sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all for the Debt Securities of such series (other than any Debt Securities of such series which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in ) not theretofore cancelled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and premium, if any, and interest, if any, due or to become due to such date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, but excluding, however, the amount of any money for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debt Securities of such series (1) theretofore deposited with the Trustee with respect to Debt Securities of such series and repaid by the Trustee to the Company in accordance with the provisions of or (2) paid with respect to Debt Securities of such series to any State or to the District of Columbia pursuant to its unclaimed property or similar laws, and if in either case the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture, and any related supplemental indenture, shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Debt Securities of such series except as to (A) the rights of Holders of Debt Securities of such series to receive solely from funds deposited by the Company with the Trustee, in trust as described above in this , payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and the interest, if any, on such Debt Securities when such payments are due;
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
Section 2.06
Section 2.06
Section 13.05
Section 13.01
 
(B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Debt Securities under and ; and (C) the rights, powers, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute such instruments as may be requested by the Company acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series of Debt Securities. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Debt Securities, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under shall survive.
Sections 2.05, 2.06, 5.02
13.03
Section 8.06
     SECTION 13.02. . At the Company's option, either (a) the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, shall be deemed to have been Discharged (as defined below) from their respective obligations with respect to any series of Debt Securities on the ninety-first day after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied or (b) the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in and with respect to any series of Debt Securities and any other covenants provided in a Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to hereof or an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series of Debt Securities at any time after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
Defeasance Upon Deposit of Money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations
Sections 5.05, 5.06
12.01
Section 2.02(A)
          (1) the Company shall have deposited or caused to be deposited irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Debt Securities of such series (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations and/or Eligible Obligations which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one business day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination of (A) and (B), sufficient, in the opinion (with respect to (A) and (B)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants selected by the Company expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including mandatory sinking fund payments) of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Outstanding Debt Securities of such series on the dates such installments of principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, are due (taking into account any redemption pursuant to optional sinking fund payments notice of which redemption is provided to the Trustee at the time of the deposit referred to in this paragraph (1));
     (2) if the Debt Securities of such series are then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Company's exercise of its option under this paragraph would not cause such Debt Securities to be delisted;
     (3) no Event of Default with respect to the Debt Securities of such series under or of this Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit and the Company shall have furnished an Officers' Certificate to such effect; and
Section 7.
01(a)
, 7.
01(b)
, 7.
01(c)
, 7.
01(e)
, 7.
01(f)
, 7.01(h)
7.01(i)
 
     (4) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (a) an Opinion of Counsel or (b) a ruling from, or published by, the Internal Revenue Service, whichever of (a) or (b) the Company shall determine, to the effect that Holders of the Debt Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised.
Section 13.02
          "" means, for purposes of this , that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, the Debt Securities of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture (and any related supplemental indenture) relating to the Debt Securities of such series (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute such instruments as may be requested by the Company acknowledging the same), except (A) the rights of Holders of Debt Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in clause (1) above, payment of the principal, premium, if any, and the interest, if any, on such Debt Securities when such payments are due; (B) the Company' obligations with respect to such Debt Securities under Sections and ; and (C) the rights, powers, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Debt Securities, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under shall survive.
Discharged
Section 13.02
2.05, 2.06, 5.02
13.03
Section 8.06
     SECTION 13.03. . All money, U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to or and with respect to U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations, the principal and interest in respect thereof, shall be held irrevocably in trust and applied by it to the payment in accordance with the provisions of the Debt Securities and this Indenture, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company if acting as its own paying agent), to the holders of the particular Debt Securities for the payment or redemption of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall promptly pay to the Company, upon written request of the Company, any excess money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations held by the Trustee at any time.
Deposited Money, U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations to be Held in Trust by Trustee
Section 13.01
13.02
     SECTION 13.04. . Upon the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all money then held by any paying agent of the Debt Securities (other than the Trustee) shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Paying Agent to Repay Money Held
     SECTION 13.05. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Indenture (including, but not limited to, the provisions of , any amounts deposited with or paid to the Trustee for payment of any portion of the principal of (which term shall for these purposes include payments due pursuant to any sinking, purchase or analogous fund), premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and not
Return of Unclaimed Amounts
Section 13.03)
 
applied but remaining unclaimed by the holders of such Debt Securities for two years after the date upon which such portion of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such Debt Securities, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee on demand; and the holder of any of such Debt Securities shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment which such holder may be entitled to collect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense and at the written request of the Company mail to such holder or cause to be published once a week for two successive weeks (in each case on any day of the week) in a newspaper printed in the English language and customarily published at least once a day at least five days in each calendar week and of general circulation in the City and State of New York, a notice that said amounts have not been so applied and that after a date named therein any unclaimed balance of said amounts then remaining will be promptly returned to the Company.
     SECTION 13.06. . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Debt Securityholders shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to until such time as the Trustee or such Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with .
Reinstatement
Section 13.01
Section 13.01
Section 13.02
     SECTION 14.01. . No recourse for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Debt Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company or any Guarantor in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Debt Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder or other equity-interest owner, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or a Guarantor or of any successor Person, either directly or through the Company or a Guarantor or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Debt Securities.
Indenture and Debt Securities Solely Corporate Obligations
     SECTION 15.01. . All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Provisions Binding on Company's Successors
     SECTION 15.02. . Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board,
Official Acts by Successor Corporation
 
committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the like board,
committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company.
     SECTION 15.03. . Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the holders of Debt Securities on the Company shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served, for all purposes, if given or served in writing (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee) to Cooper US, Inc., 600 Travis, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention: Treasurer. Any notice, direction, request or demand by any Debt Securityholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served, for all purposes, if given or served in writing at the principal office of the Trustee which at the date of this Indenture is 60 Wall Street  27th Floor, New York, New York 10005, with copy to Deutsche Bank National Trust Company for Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Trust and Security Services, 100 Plaza One, Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-3901 (fax number: 732-578-4635).
Addresses for Notices, Etc
     SECTION 15.04. . This Indenture and each Debt Security, and each Guarantee, shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the said State. EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE GUARANTORS AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
New York Contract
     SECTION 15.05. . Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent
     Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provide for in this Indenture shall include (A) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (B) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (C) a statement that in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (D) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     SECTION 15.06. . In any case where the date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Debt Securities of any series or the date fixed for redemption of any Debt Security of any series shall be in the City and State of New York a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions are authorized by law to close, then payment or such interest on or principal and premium, if any, need not be made on such date but may be made on the next
Legal Holidays
 
succeeding Banking Day not in such city a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized by law to close with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such date.
     SECTION 15.07. . If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of Sections 310 and 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, such required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act to Control
     SECTION 15.08. . If the provisions of any series of Debt Securities issued hereunder are inconsistent or conflict with the provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of the Debt Securities of such series shall be controlling with respect to such series.
Debt Securities Controlling in the Event of Inconsistencies Between Indenture and Debt Securities
     SECTION 15.09. . The table of contents and the titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
     SECTION 15.10. . This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
     SECTION 15.11. . (a) Each of the Company and the Guarantors agree, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (i) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of or interest on the Debt Securities of any series (the "") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee for such Debt Securities could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency at 10:00 A.M. New York City time, or as close to such time as is reasonably practicable, on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such day is not a Banking Day, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures such Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency at 10:00 A.M. New York City time, or as close to such time as is reasonably practicable, on the Banking Day preceding the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered and (ii) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (x) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with this subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (y) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (z) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other
Judgment Currency; Service of Process
Required Currency
Judgment Currency
 
sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close. Except as provided in Section 8.01, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for any shortfall relating to the purchase of the Required Currency.
Banking Day
     SECTION 15.12. . The Trustee hereby notifies each of the Company and Cooper Parent that pursuant to the requirement of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Company and Cooper Parent, which information includes the name and address of each of the Company and Cooper Parent and other information that will allow the Trustee to identify each of the Company and cooper Parent in accordance with the Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act Notice
Patriot Act
     SECTION 16.01. . Except as otherwise provided herein, Cooper Parent hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Debt Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, including all obligations hereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Debt Securities and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, Cooper Parent hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. Cooper Parent agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debt Securities or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of Article Thirteen), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company or Cooper Parent or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Debt Securities or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of
Guarantee
 
a surety or guarantor. Cooper Parent hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Debt Securities or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Debt Securities except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debt Securities and in such Guarantee or the operation, as applicable, of Article Thirteen. Cooper Parent agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Debt Securities, to collect any principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, the Debt Securities, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Debt Securities, Cooper Parent agrees to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
     Cooper Parent shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities upon which its Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by Cooper Parent on account of the Debt Securities pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; provided, however, that Cooper Parent shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all Debt Securities issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
     This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Debt Securities, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Debt Securities, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Debt Securities shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
 
     SECTION 16.02. .
Release of Guarantee
     Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, Cooper Parent shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Debt Securities, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of Cooper Parent from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of Cooper Parent under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debt Securities and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and Cooper Parent shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
 
     Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas hereby accepts the trusts in this Indenture declared and provided, upon the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Cooper US, Inc. has caused this Indenture to be signed by its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer, and the same to be attested by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas has caused this Indenture to be signed by one of its duly authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
     dated as of December 7, 2010 (this ), between (i) , a Delaware corporation (the or the ), (ii) , a public limited company formed under the laws of Ireland (), (iii) , an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of Bermuda (), (iv) , a Delaware corporation (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), and , a New York corporation (), and (v) , a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the ).
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
"First Supplemental Indenture"
Cooper US, Inc.
"Issuer"
"Company"
Cooper Industries plc
"Cooper Parent"
Cooper Industries, Ltd.
"Bermuda"
Cooper BLine, Inc.
"BLine"
Cooper Bussmann, LLC
"Bussmann"
Cooper CrouseHinds, LLC
"Crouse"
Cooper Lighting, LLC
"Lighting"
Cooper Power Systems, LLC
"Power Systems"
Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
"Wiring"
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
"Trustee"
     the Issuer and Cooper Parent have heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2010 (the ), with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee;
WHEREAS,
"Original Indenture"
     the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the :
WHEREAS,
"Indenture"
     under the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Debt Securities may at any time be established by a supplemental Indenture executed by the Issuer, the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee;
WHEREAS,
     the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Debt Securities;
WHEREAS,
     additional Debt Securities of other series hereafter established, except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified; and
WHEREAS,
     all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
WHEREAS,
     in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
     
Section 1.01. Establishment of New Series.
          (a) There is hereby established a new series of Debt Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 2.375% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ).
"Notes"
          (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered $250,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
          (c) The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities in substantially the form set out in hereto. The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Exhibit A
          (d) Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph number 1 of the form of Note in hereto. As provided for in , the Notes shall be jointly and severally guaranteed by the Guarantors.
Exhibit A
Article VIII
          (e) If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, including provisions contained in the form of Note in hereto, shall govern.
Exhibit A
     All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned in the Original Indenture. The words "Article" and "Section", unless otherwise modified, refer to an Article and Section, respectively, of this First Supplemental Indenture. The following are additional definitions used in this First Supplemental Indenture:
Section 2.01. Definitions.
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Additional Notes"
Section 3.02
     means a decrease in the ratings of the Notes below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following the public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
provided
 
the Issuer's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Bermuda"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"BLine"
     means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions located in the state where the Trustee is located are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.
"Business Day"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Bussmann"
     means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person or group of Persons for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries or a Person controlled by Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of Cooper Parent Voting Stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of Cooper Parent's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
"Change of Control"
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Offer"
Section 5.01
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Payment"
Section 5.01
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Payment Date"
Section 5.01
     means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Company"
     means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of Cooper Parent's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Continuing Directors"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Crouse"
 
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
"Exchange Act"
     means, collectively, Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and subject to , their respective successors and assigns.
"Guarantors"
Article VII
     means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBBor better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
"Investment Grade"
     means the date of the first issuance of the Notes under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Issuer"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Lighting"
     means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor to its ratings business.
"Moody's"
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Notes"
Section 1.01(a)
     , as used in the definition of "Change of Control", has the meaning assigned in the Original Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Person"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Power Systems"
     means (1) each of Moody's and S&P: and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer (as set forth in Certified Resolutions) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
"Rating Agency"
     means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGrawHill, Inc., or any successor to its ratings business.
"S&P"
     means, collectively, Bermuda, BLine, Bussmann, Crouse, Lighting, Power Systems and Wiring.
"Subsidiary Guarantors"
     of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
"Voting Stock"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Wiring"
 
     The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this First Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Section 3.01. Form.
Exhibit A
     The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes () under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and date of first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000. The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued, shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Section 3.02. Issuance of Additional Notes.
"Additional Notes"
     
Section 3.03. Transfer of Securities.
          (a) When Notes are presented to the Notes registrar with the request to register the transfer of such Notes or exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, such registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange in accordance with Article Two of the Original Indenture.
          (b) Each security certificate evidencing the Global Debt Securities shall bear a legend substantially in the form set forth in Section 2.11 of the Original Indenture.
     
Section 4.01. Optional Redemption.
          (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
          (b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date for such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Exhibit A
          (c) Any redemption pursuant to this shall otherwise be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.01 through 4.03 of the Original Indenture. The actual redemption price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Quotation Agent (as
Section 4.01
Exhibit A
 
defined in such paragraph number 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each redemption date for such Notes.
     The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be obligated to offer to repurchase Notes as provided in .
Section 4.02. Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund.
Article V
     Article Five of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section at the end of said Article Five:
Section 5.01. Covenants.
     "
Section 5.10 Offer to Repurchase upon Change of Control and Repurchase Event.
          (a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as provided for in the Indenture, the Company shall make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ) at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the ).
"Change of Control Offer"
"Change of Control Payment"
     Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
          (i) the description of the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event, that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this , and that all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn will be accepted for payment:
Section 5.10
          (ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ):
"Change of Control Payment Date"
          (iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest:
          (iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date:
          (v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes properly endorsed, with the form entitled on the reverse of the Notes properly completed, together with other customary documents as the Company may reasonably request, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the
"
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
"
 
close of business On the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date:
          (vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the paying agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
          (vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be in an integral multiple of $1,000.
If any of the Notes subject to a Change of Control Offer are in the form of a Global Debt Security, then the Company shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the applicable procedures of the Depositary applicable to repurchases. In addition, the Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations under the Exchange Act to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this or the Notes, or any related definitions and other provisions of the Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this or the Notes, or any other provision of the Indenture, by virtue of such conflict.
Section 5.10
Section 5.10
          (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the paying agent in immediately available funds an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes accepted for purchase, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered by the Holder; that each such new Note will be in an integral multiple of $1,000. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
          (c) The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of the Indenture are applicable, except as set forth in of this Indenture.
Article Thirteen
          (d) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer
 
in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture that are applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. A Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, and conditional upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Repurchase Event, if a definitive agreement for the Change of Control is in place at the time of making of the Change of Control Offer."
      of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the phrase "or " immediately following the phrase "set forth in or ," and immediately preceding the word "hereof' which otherwise followed such phrase.
Section 5.02. Supplement to Covenants.
Section 5.07
5.10
Section 5.05
5.06
     Section 8.06 of the Original Indenture is hereby, supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase "The Company and the Guarantors" in lieu of the phrase "The Company, and Cooper Parent" as therein originally provided in the opening portion of the second sentence of said Section 8.06.
Section 6.01. Compensation and Expenses of Trustee.
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Twelve of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article
     "The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.01 Company May Consolidate, Etc. Only on Certain Terms.
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed:
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become all Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
 
          (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article Twelve and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; provided, however, the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this Section 12.01.
     Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ) shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.02 Successor Corporation Substituted.
Section 12.01
Section 12.01
     Cooper Parent shall not consolidate or amalgamate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.03 Cooper Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, Cooper Parent's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of Cooper Parent to be performed or observed;
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (3) Cooper Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however,
Section 12.03
     Upon any consolidation, amalgamation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Cooper
Section 12.04 Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Parent substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Cooper Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Cooper Parent herein: and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, Cooper Parent (or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ), shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.03
Section 12.03
     
Section 12.05 Consolidation, Merger, Etc. of Subsidiary Guarantors.
          (a) If any Subsidiary Guarantor consolidates with, merges into, or conveys or transfers its assets substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary:
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which such Subsidiary Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, such Person's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor to be performed or observed; and
          (2) such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
          (b) If any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary or merges into, consolidates with, or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety, to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee in accordance with ."
Section 16.02(b)
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Sixteen of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article VIII
     "Except as otherwise provided herein, the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, including all obligations hereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Notes and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the
Section 16.01 Guarantee.
 
Company punctually to make any such payment, the Guarantors hereby agree to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantors agree that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of ), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company or the Guarantors or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Notes or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantors hereby waive the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Notes or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Notes except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and in such Guarantee or the operation, as applicable, of . The Guarantors agree that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Notes, to collect any principal of, or, interest or premium, if any, on, the Notes, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Notes, the Guarantors agree to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Article Thirteen
Article Thirteen
     The Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Notes upon which its Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantors on account of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all Notes issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
provided, however,
     This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Notes, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Notes, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Notes shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
 
     Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary, to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     
Section 16.02 Release of Guarantee.
          (a) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, each of the Guarantors shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Notes, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of each of the Guarantors from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantors under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the Guarantors shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
          (b) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the time that any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary (other than by such Guarantor's consolidation with, or merger into, Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary) or such Subsidiary Guarantor conveys or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, then such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under this Guarantee."
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
Section 16.02(b)
     Section 13.02 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase " and " in lieu of the phrase " and " as therein originally provided.
Section 9.01. Defeasance Upon Deposit of Money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations.
Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.10
12.01
Sections 5.05, 5.06
12.01
 
     Section 15.11 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of paragraph (c) thereto as follows:
Section 10.01. Judgment Currency; Service of Process.
     "(c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably designates and appoints the Company, 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas 77002, authorized agent with respect to any suit, action or proceeding based on or arising out of or in relation to this Indenture or any Notes or its Guarantee, it being understood that the designation and appointment of the Company as such authorized agent shall become effective immediately without any further action on the part of any Subsidiary Guarantor. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that service of process upon the Company and written notice of said service to such Subsidiary Guarantor mailed by prepaid registered first class mail or delivered to the Company at its principal office, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process on each Subsidiary Guarantor, as applicable, in any such suit, action or proceeding."
     This First Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Section 11.01. Integral Part.
     The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Section 11.02. Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation.
     This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each party hereto on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 11.03. Counterparts.
     THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 11.04. Governing Law.
     The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Section 11.05. Trustee Makes No Representation.
     The Trustee hereby notifies each of the Company and the Guarantors that pursuant to the requirement of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ), it is required to
Section 11.06. USA Patriot Act Notice.
"Patriot Act"
 
obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Company and the Guarantors, which information includes the name and address of each of the Company and the Guarantors and other information that will allow the Trustee to identify each of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with the Patriot Act.
 
     the parties hereby have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and delivered by their duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
      
     Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to ________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of __________ Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto] on January 15, 2016 (the ).
1
"Stated Maturity"
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15, commencing July 15, 2011 Record Dates: January 1 and July 1
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
     This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated _______________
 
 
     THIS DEBT SECURITY IS A GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC") TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OR TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
     1. Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the or the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 2.375% per annum from December 7, 2010 until maturity. The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be July 15, 2011. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate, and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful; and each type of interest referred to in this sentence shall hereinafter be referred to as . Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
.
"Company"
"Issuer"
"Interest Payment Date"
provided
provided, further
"Defaulted Interest"
     2. (a) The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on
Method of Payment
.
 
the January 1 and July 1 immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in of this Note with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a paying agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, 27 Floor, New York, New York 10005), or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (1) each Global Debt Security and (2) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent on or prior to the applicable record date. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Paragraph 2(b)
th
provided
     (b) Any Defaulted Interest on any Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder thereof on the relevant record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Issuer, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (i) or (ii) below.
     (i) The Issuer may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons whose names are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: The Issuer shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Note and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Issuer, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder thereof at its address as it appears in the Note register, not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on such special record date.
     (ii) The Issuer may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Notes in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Registered Securities of such series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Issuer to the
 
Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     3. Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as paying agent and Registrar. The Issuer may change any paying agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
.
     4. The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (as amended (in accordance with its applicable provisions) by supplements and amendments of general application thereto, the ), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (the , and together with the Original Indenture, the ), between the Issuer, Cooper Parent, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this Note shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $250 million. The Issuer may issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture. Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Note for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the First Supplemental Indenture). Initially, the Notes are guaranteed by Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors named in the First Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
.
"Original Indenture"
"First Supplemental Indenture"
"Indenture"
     5. (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
.
     (b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (excluding interest accrued to the redemption date of such Notes) discounted to such redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360day year consisting of twelve 30day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 12.5 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date of such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
     For purposes of determining the redemption price, the following definitions shall apply:
     means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate notes of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
 
     means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
     means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
"Quotation Agent"
     means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their successors; that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (a ), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
provided, however,
"Primary Treasury Dealer"
     means, for each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date of the Notes, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
     means, with respect to an redemption date of the Notes, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
"Treasury Rate"
     6. The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be required to make an offer to repurchase Notes as provided in of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund; Repurchases
.
Section 5.01
     7. Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the redemption price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
.
     8. The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
.
     9. The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
.
 
     10. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 11.01 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for the assumption of the Issuer's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation of the Issuer or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets, to add or release Guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes, to comply with the requirements of the SEC to permit the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or separate Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any Guarantor or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Debt Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
.
     11. Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes: (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise; (iii) failure by the Company or any Guarantor to comply with any of its other covenants or agreements in the Indenture relating to the Notes for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or by Holders of 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes; (iv) except as permitted by the Indenture, the Guarantee of Cooper Parent ceasing to be in full force and effect or Cooper Parent denies or disaffirms its obligations under the Indenture or its Guarantee; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer or Cooper Parent. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all Outstanding Notes shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. If and so long as the Trustee in good faith so determines that withholding notice is in the interests of the Holders, the Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest). The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding by written notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, the principal of, or premium, if any, on, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture.
Defaults and Remedies
.
     12. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuer or its affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Issuer
.
 
     13. The directors, officers, incorporators, stockholders and other equityinterest owners, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Guarantor or any successor Person, either directly or indirectly through the Company or a Guarantor or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statue or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, shall have no liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantors under the Notes, the Indenture or the Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note expressly waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
.
     14. This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
.
     15. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
.
     16. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
.
     The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Cooper US, Inc. 600 Travis Street Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Secretary
 
     For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (as amended or supplemented (in general application) and in effect, including by means of the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of December 7, 2010, the ) among Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Guarantors part) thereto and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the ), that (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other payment obligations of the Issuer to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture are set forth in the Indenture, and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
"Indenture"
"Issuer"
"Trustee"
     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                    
                         
                    
Date:
Your Signature:
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note.
Signature Guarantee:
(Signature must be guaranteed by a financial institution that is a member of the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program (), the Stock Exchange Medallion Program (), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program () or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, SEMP or MSP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
"STAMP"
"SEMP"
"MSP"
 
     To elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 5.10 of the Indenture, check the box below:
     If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 5.10 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
Signature Guarantee:
*
                    
 
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $____________. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
     dated as of December 7, 2010 (this ), between (i) , a Delaware corporation (the or the ), (ii) , a public limited company formed under the laws of Ireland (), (iii) , an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of Bermuda (), (iv) , a Delaware corporation (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), , a Delaware limited liability company (), and , a New York corporation (), and (v) , a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the ).
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
"Second Supplemental Indenture"
Cooper US, Inc.
"Issuer"
"Company"
Cooper Industries plc
"Cooper Parent"
Cooper Industries, Ltd.
"Bermuda"
Cooper BLine, Inc.
"BLine"
Cooper Bussmann, LLC
"Bussmann"
Cooper CrouseHinds, LLC
"Crouse"
Cooper Lighting, LLC
"Lighting"
Cooper Power Systems, LLC
"Power Systems"
Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
"Wiring"
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
"Trustee"
     the Issuer and Cooper Parent have heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of December 7, 2010 (the ), with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee;
WHEREAS,
"Original Indenture"
     the Issuer, the Guarantors and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee, previously entered into that certain First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (the ):
WHEREAS,
"First Supplemental Indenture"
     the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the :
WHEREAS,
"Indenture"
     under the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Debt Securities may at any time be established by a supplemental Indenture executed by the Issuer, the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee;
WHEREAS,
     the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Debt Securities;
WHEREAS,
     additional Debt Securities of other series hereafter established, except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified; and
WHEREAS,
     all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
WHEREAS,
     in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
     
Section 1.01. Establishment of New Series.
          (a) There is hereby established a new series of Debt Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 3.875% Senior Notes due 2020 (the ).
"Notes"
          (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered $250,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
          (c) The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities in substantially the form set out in hereto. The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Exhibit A
          (d) Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph number 1 of the form of Note in hereto. As provided for in , the Notes shall be jointly and severally guaranteed by the Guarantors.
Exhibit A
Article VIII
          (e) If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, including provisions contained in the form of Note in hereto, shall govern.
Exhibit A
     All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned in the Original Indenture. The words "Article" and "Section", unless otherwise modified, refer to an Article and Section, respectively, of this Second Supplemental Indenture. The following are additional definitions used in this Second Supplemental Indenture:
Section 2.01. Definitions.
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Additional Notes"
Section 3.02
     means a decrease in the ratings of the Notes below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following the public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
provided
 
the Issuer's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Bermuda"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"BLine"
     means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions located in the state where the Trustee is located are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.
"Business Day"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Bussmann"
     means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person or group of Persons for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries or a Person controlled by Cooper Parent or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of Cooper Parent Voting Stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of Cooper Parent's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
"Change of Control"
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Offer"
Section 5.01
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Payment"
Section 5.01
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Change of Control Payment Date"
Section 5.01
     means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Company"
     means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of Cooper Parent's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Continuing Directors"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Crouse"
 
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
"Exchange Act"
     means, collectively, Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and subject to , their respective successors and assigns.
"Guarantors"
Article VII
     means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBBor better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
"Investment Grade"
     means the date of the first issuance of the Notes under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Issuer"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Lighting"
     means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor to its ratings business.
"Moody's"
     shall have the meaning assigned in .
"Notes"
Section 1.01(a)
     , as used in the definition of "Change of Control", has the meaning assigned in the Original Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Person"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Power Systems"
     means (1) each of Moody's and S&P: and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer (as set forth in Certified Resolutions) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
"Rating Agency"
     means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGrawHill, Inc., or any successor to its ratings business.
"S&P"
     means, collectively, Bermuda, BLine, Bussmann, Crouse, Lighting, Power Systems and Wiring.
"Subsidiary Guarantors"
     of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
"Voting Stock"
     shall have the meaning assigned in the introductory paragraph hereof.
"Wiring"
 
     The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Debt Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Section 3.01. Form.
Exhibit A
     The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes () under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and date of first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000. The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued, shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Section 3.02. Issuance of Additional Notes.
"Additional Notes"
     
Section 3.03. Transfer of Securities.
          (a) When Notes are presented to the Notes registrar with the request to register the transfer of such Notes or exchange such Notes for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, such registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange in accordance with Article Two of the Original Indenture.
          (b) Each security certificate evidencing the Global Debt Securities shall bear a legend substantially in the form set forth in Section 2.11 of the Original Indenture.
     
Section 4.01. Optional Redemption.
          (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
          (b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date for such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Exhibit A
          (c) Any redemption pursuant to this shall otherwise be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.01 through 4.03 of the Original Indenture. The actual redemption price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Quotation Agent (as
Section 4.01
Exhibit A
 
defined in such paragraph number 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each redemption date for such Notes.
     The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be obligated to offer to repurchase Notes as provided in .
Section 4.02. Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund.
Article V
     Article Five of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section at the end of said Article Five:
Section 5.01. Covenants.
     "
Section 5.10 Offer to Repurchase upon Change of Control and Repurchase Event.
          (a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as provided for in the Indenture, the Company shall make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ) at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the ).
"Change of Control Offer"
"Change of Control Payment"
     Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
          (i) the description of the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event, that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this , and that all Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn will be accepted for payment:
Section 5.10
          (ii) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ):
"Change of Control Payment Date"
          (iii) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest:
          (iv) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date:
          (v) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes properly endorsed, with the form entitled on the reverse of the Notes properly completed, together with other customary documents as the Company may reasonably request, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the
"
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
"
 
close of business On the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date:
          (vi) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the paying agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
          (vii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be in an integral multiple of $1,000.
If any of the Notes subject to a Change of Control Offer are in the form of a Global Debt Security, then the Company shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the applicable procedures of the Depositary applicable to repurchases. In addition, the Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations under the Exchange Act to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this or the Notes, or any related definitions and other provisions of the Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this or the Notes, or any other provision of the Indenture, by virtue of such conflict.
Section 5.10
Section 5.10
          (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the paying agent in immediately available funds an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes accepted for purchase, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered by the Holder; that each such new Note will be in an integral multiple of $1,000. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
          (c) The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of the Indenture are applicable, except as set forth in of this Indenture.
Article Thirteen
          (d) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer
 
in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture that are applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. A Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, and conditional upon the occurrence of such Change of Control Repurchase Event, if a definitive agreement for the Change of Control is in place at the time of making of the Change of Control Offer."
      of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the phrase "or " immediately following the phrase "set forth in or ," and immediately preceding the word "hereof' which otherwise followed such phrase.
Section 5.02. Supplement to Covenants.
Section 5.07
5.10
Section 5.05
5.06
     Section 8.06 of the Original Indenture is hereby, supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase "The Company and the Guarantors" in lieu of the phrase "The Company, and Cooper Parent" as therein originally provided in the opening portion of the second sentence of said Section 8.06.
Section 6.01. Compensation and Expenses of Trustee.
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Twelve of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article
     "The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.01 Company May Consolidate, Etc. Only on Certain Terms.
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed:
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become all Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
 
          (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article Twelve and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; provided, however, the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this Section 12.01.
     Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ) shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.02 Successor Corporation Substituted.
Section 12.01
Section 12.01
     Cooper Parent shall not consolidate or amalgamate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 12.03 Cooper Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, Cooper Parent's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of Cooper Parent to be performed or observed;
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (3) Cooper Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for which relate to such transaction have been complied with; the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this .
Article Twelve
provided, however,
Section 12.03
     Upon any consolidation, amalgamation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Cooper
Section 12.04 Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Parent substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Cooper Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Cooper Parent herein: and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, Cooper Parent (or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in ), shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Section 12.03
Section 12.03
     
Section 12.05 Consolidation, Merger, Etc. of Subsidiary Guarantors.
          (a) If any Subsidiary Guarantor consolidates with, merges into, or conveys or transfers its assets substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary:
          (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which such Subsidiary Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, such Person's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all the Notes and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor to be performed or observed; and
          (2) such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Notes and may be dissolved and liquidated.
          (b) If any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary or merges into, consolidates with, or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety, to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee in accordance with ."
Section 16.02(b)
     With respect to the Notes, but only in relation to the Notes, the provisions of this shall preempt, and be substituted for, the provisions of Article Sixteen of the Original Indenture in their entirety.
Article VIII
     "Except as otherwise provided herein, the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, including all obligations hereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Notes and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the
Section 16.01 Guarantee.
 
Company punctually to make any such payment, the Guarantors hereby agree to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantors agree that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of ), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company or the Guarantors or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Notes or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantors hereby waive the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Notes or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Notes except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and in such Guarantee or the operation, as applicable, of . The Guarantors agree that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Notes, to collect any principal of, or, interest or premium, if any, on, the Notes, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Notes, the Guarantors agree to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
Article Thirteen
Article Thirteen
     The Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Notes upon which its Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantors on account of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, all Notes issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
provided, however,
     This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Notes, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Notes, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Notes shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
 
     Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary, to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     
Section 16.02 Release of Guarantee.
          (a) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, each of the Guarantors shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Notes, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of each of the Guarantors from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantors under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the Guarantors shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
          (b) Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, concurrently with the time that any Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary (other than by such Guarantor's consolidation with, or merger into, Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary) or such Subsidiary Guarantor conveys or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, then such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under this Guarantee."
Article Sixteen
Article Sixteen
Section 16.02(b)
     Section 13.02 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the substitution of the phrase " and " in lieu of the phrase " and " as therein originally provided.
Section 9.01. Defeasance Upon Deposit of Money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations.
Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.10
12.01
Sections 5.05, 5.06
12.01
 
     Section 15.11 of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of paragraph (c) thereto as follows:
Section 10.01. Judgment Currency; Service of Process.
     "(c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably designates and appoints the Company, 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas 77002, authorized agent with respect to any suit, action or proceeding based on or arising out of or in relation to this Indenture or any Notes or its Guarantee, it being understood that the designation and appointment of the Company as such authorized agent shall become effective immediately without any further action on the part of any Subsidiary Guarantor. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that service of process upon the Company and written notice of said service to such Subsidiary Guarantor mailed by prepaid registered first class mail or delivered to the Company at its principal office, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process on each Subsidiary Guarantor, as applicable, in any such suit, action or proceeding."
     This Second Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Section 11.01. Integral Part.
     The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Section 11.02. Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation.
     This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each party hereto on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 11.03. Counterparts.
     THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 11.04. Governing Law.
     The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 11.05. Trustee Makes No Representation.
     The Trustee hereby notifies each of the Company and the Guarantors that pursuant to the requirement of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ), it is required to
Section 11.06. USA Patriot Act Notice.
"Patriot Act"
 
obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Company and the Guarantors, which information includes the name and address of each of the Company and the Guarantors and other information that will allow the Trustee to identify each of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with the Patriot Act.
 
     the parties hereby have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and delivered by their duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
     Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to ________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of __________ Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto] on December 15, 2020 (the ).
1
"Stated Maturity"
Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2011 Record Dates: June 1 and December 1
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
     This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated
                    
                    
 
 
     THIS DEBT SECURITY IS A GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS GLOBAL DEBT SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC") TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OR TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
     1. Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the or the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 3.875% per annum from December 7, 2010 until maturity. The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be June 15, 2011. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate, and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful; and each type of interest referred to in this sentence shall hereinafter be referred to as . Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
.
"Company"
"Issuer"
"Interest Payment Date"
provided
provided, further
"Defaulted Interest"
     2. (a) The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on
Method of Payment
.
 
the June 1 and December 1 immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in of this Note with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a paying agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, 27 Floor, New York, New York 10005), or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (1) each Global Debt Security and (2) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent on or prior to the applicable record date. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Paragraph 2(b)
th
provided
     (b) Any Defaulted Interest on any Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder thereof on the relevant record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Issuer, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (i) or (ii) below.
     (i) The Issuer may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons whose names are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner: The Issuer shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Note and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Issuer, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder thereof at its address as it appears in the Note register, not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on such special record date.
     (ii) The Issuer may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Notes in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Registered Securities of such series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Issuer to the
 
Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     3. Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as paying agent and Registrar. The Issuer may change any paying agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
.
     4. The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (as amended (in accordance with its applicable provisions) by supplements and amendments of general application thereto, the ), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (the ) and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (the , and together with the Original Indenture as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, the ), between the Issuer, Cooper Parent, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of this Note shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $250 million. The Issuer may issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture. Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Note for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Second Supplemental Indenture). Initially, the Notes are guaranteed by Cooper Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors named in the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
.
"Original Indenture"
"First Supplemental Indenture"
"Second Supplemental Indenture"
"Indenture"
     5. (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
.
     (b) Prior to September 15, 2020, to redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (excluding interest accrued to the redemption date of such Notes) discounted to such redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360day year consisting of twelve 30day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 15.0 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date of such Notes (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). At any time on or after September 15, 2020, the Notes are redeemable at any time and from time to time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest if any to the redemption date of such Notes.
 
     For purposes of determining the redemption price, the following definitions shall apply:
     means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate notes of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
     means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
     means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
"Quotation Agent"
     means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their successors; that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (a ), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
provided, however,
"Primary Treasury Dealer"
     means, for each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date of the Notes, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
     means, with respect to an redemption date of the Notes, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
"Treasury Rate"
     6. The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Issuer shall be required to make an offer to repurchase Notes as provided in of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
Mandatory Redemption and Sinking Fund; Repurchases
.
Section 5.01
     7. Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the redemption price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
.
     8. The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
.
 
Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
     9. The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
.
     10. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 11.01 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for the assumption of the Issuer's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation of the Issuer or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets, to add or release Guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes, to comply with the requirements of the SEC to permit the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or separate Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any Guarantor or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Debt Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
.
     11. Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes: (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise; (iii) failure by the Company or any Guarantor to comply with any of its other covenants or agreements in the Indenture relating to the Notes for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or by Holders of 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes; (iv) except as permitted by the Indenture, the Guarantee of Cooper Parent ceasing to be in full force and effect or Cooper Parent denies or disaffirms its obligations under the Indenture or its Guarantee; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer or Cooper Parent. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all Outstanding Notes shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. If and so long as the Trustee in good faith so determines that withholding notice is in the interests of the Holders, the Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest). The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding by written notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the
Defaults and Remedies
.
 
Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, the principal of, or premium, if any, on, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture.
     12. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuer or its affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Issuer
.
     13. The directors, officers, incorporators, stockholders and other equityinterest owners, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Guarantor or any successor Person, either directly or indirectly through the Company or a Guarantor or any successor Person, whether by virtue of any constitution, statue or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, shall have no liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantors under the Notes, the Indenture or the Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note expressly waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
.
     14. This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
.
     15. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
.
     16. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and, if applicable, corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
.
     The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Cooper US, Inc. 600 Travis Street Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Secretary
 
     For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture dated as of December 7, 2010 (as amended or supplemented (in general application) and in effect, including by means of the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of December 7, 2010 and the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of December 7, 2010, the ) among Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Guarantors part) thereto and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the ), that (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes, if lawful (subject in all cases to any applicable grace period provided herein), and all other payment obligations of the Issuer to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, redemption, declaration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture are set forth in the Indenture, and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
"Indenture"
"Issuer"
"Trustee"
     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Date:
Your Signature:
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note.
Signature Guarantee:
 
     To elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 5.10 of the Indenture, check the box below:
     If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 5.10 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
Signature Guarantee:
*
                                         
 
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $___________. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 

Exhibit 5.1
December 7, 2010
Cooper Industries plc Cooper B-Line, Inc. Cooper Bussmann, LLC Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Industries, Ltd. Cooper Lighting, LLC Cooper Power Systems, LLC Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. Cooper US, Inc.
     c/o Cooper Industries plc      600 Travis, Suite 5600      Houston, Texas 77002
          RE: 
Cooper US, Inc. Senior Notes Offering
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel for Cooper Industries plc, an Irish company ("Cooper Parent"), and Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended of (a) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 2.375% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 and (b) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 3.875% Senior Notes due December 15, 2020 (collectively, the "Notes") pursuant to a Prospectus Supplement dated December 2, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantees") by Cooper Parent, Cooper Industries, Ltd., Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, LLC, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, Cooper Lighting, LLC, Cooper Power Systems, LLC and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. (the "Guarantors").
     The Notes are to be issued under an indenture among Cooper Parent, Cooper US and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture and a Second Supplemental Indenture, each among Cooper US, the Guarantors and the Trustee, and each dated as of the date hereof (such indenture, as so amended and supplemented, the "Indenture"). We have examined the Indenture and Notes, and have relied as to matters of fact upon, original, certified, conformed or photographic copies of such corporate records of Cooper US and the
 
Cooper Industries plc December 7, 2010 Page 2
Guarantors, such certificates of public officials, officers of Cooper US and the Guarantors and other persons, and such other documents, records, agreements and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. In such examination we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures on all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all copies submitted to us as certified, conformed or photographic copies, and, as to certificates of public officials, we have assumed the same to be accurate and to have been given properly.
     We have assumed that the execution and delivery of, and the performance of all obligations under, the Indenture and the Notes have been duly authorized by all requisite action by the parties thereto, that the Indenture and the Notes have been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto and that the Indenture will be a valid and binding agreement of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms.
     For purposes of our opinions, we have assumed that (a) Cooper Parent and Cooper Industries, Ltd. are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization and have all requisite power and authority to enable them to execute, deliver and perform the Indenture and the Notes, (b) such execution, delivery and performance will not violate the law of Ireland or Bermuda, as applicable, or any other applicable laws (excepting the law of the States of New York, the corporate laws of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States), and (c) such execution, delivery and performance do not and will not constitute a breach or a violation of any agreement or instrument that is binding upon, or the organizational documents of, Cooper Parent or Cooper Industries, Ltd.
     The opinions expressed herein are limited in all respects to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of New York and the corporate laws of the State of Delaware (which includes the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial interpretations concerning those laws), and no opinion is expressed with respect to the laws of any other jurisdiction or any effect which such laws may have on the opinions expressed herein. The opinions expressed herein are limited to the matters stated herein, and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated herein.
     Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the other limitations and qualifications set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
 
Cooper Industries plc December 7, 2010 Page 3
     This opinion is given as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to advise you after the date hereof of facts or circumstances that come to our attention or changes in law that occur which could affect the opinions contained herein. This opinion is being rendered for the benefit of Cooper Parent and Cooper US in connection with the matters addressed herein.
     We consent to the filing of this opinion as an Exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K that you will file on December 7, 2010 and to the reference to us under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement.

Exhibit 8.1
December 7, 2010
Cooper Industries plc Cooper B-Line, Inc. Cooper Bussmann, LLC Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Industries, Ltd. Cooper Lighting, LLC Cooper Power Systems, LLC Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. Cooper US, Inc.
     c/o Cooper Industries plc      600 Travis, Suite 5600      Houston, Texas 77002
          RE: 
Cooper US, Inc. Senior Notes Offering
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel for Cooper Industries plc, an Irish company ("Cooper Parent"), and Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cooper US"), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended of (a) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 2.375% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 and (b) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Cooper US's 3.875% Senior Notes due December 15, 2020 (collectively, the "Notes") pursuant to a Prospectus Supplement dated December 2, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Cooper Parent, Cooper Industries, Ltd., Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, LLC, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, Cooper Lighting, LLC, Cooper Power Systems, LLC and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc. (the "Guarantors").
     The Notes are to be issued under an indenture among Cooper Parent, Cooper US and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture and a Second Supplemental Indenture, each among Cooper US, the Guarantors and the Trustee, and each dated as of the date hereof (such indenture, as so amended and supplemented, the "Indenture"). We have examined the Indenture and Notes, and have relied as to matters of fact upon, original, certified, conformed or photographic copies of such corporate records of Cooper US and the Guarantors, such certificates of public officials, officers of Cooper US and the Guarantors and other persons, and such other documents, records,
 
agreements and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed. In such examination we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures on all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all copies submitted to us as certified, conformed or photographic copies, and, as to certificates of public officials, we have assumed the same to be accurate and to have been given properly.
     We have assumed that the execution and delivery of, and the performance of all obligations under, the Indenture and the Notes have been duly authorized by all requisite action by the parties thereto, that the Indenture and the Notes have been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto and that the Indenture will be a valid and binding agreement of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms.
     Our opinion set forth below is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, administrative pronouncements, and judicial precedents, all as of the date hereof. The foregoing authorities may be repealed, revoked or modified, and any such change may have retroactive effect.
     Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications, limitations and assumptions set forth herein and in the Prospectus Supplement, we are of the opinion that the statements set forth in the Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Material Income Tax Considerations  United States Taxation," to the extent such statements summarize U.S. federal income tax consequences of the purchase, beneficial ownership and disposition of the Notes, are accurate in all material respects.
     This opinion is given as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to advise you after the date hereof of facts or circumstances that come to our attention or changes in law that occur which could affect the opinions contained herein. This opinion is being rendered for the benefit of Cooper Parent and Cooper US in connection with the matters addressed herein.
     We express no opinion with respect to the matters addressed herein other than as expressly set forth herein, nor do we express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the federal income tax law of the United States. Moreover, we note that our opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or courts, any of which could take a contrary position.
     We consent to the filing of this opinion as an Exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K that you will file on December 7, 2010 and to the reference to us under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement.

Exhibit 99.1
P.O. Box 4446 Houston, Texas 77210-4446
Cooper Industries
News Release
For Immediate Release
Mark Doheny Director of Investor Relations Cooper Industries 713-209-8484 mark.doheny@cooperindustries.com
For information contact:
      Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) today announced that its Cooper U.S., Inc. subsidiary has issued $250 million of senior unsecured fixed-rate notes due in 2016 and $250 million due in 2020. The five-year notes have an interest coupon of 2.375 percent and the ten-year notes have an interest coupon of 3.875 percent. Proceeds from the financing will be used for general corporate purposes.
Dublin, Ireland, December 7, 2010
About Cooper Industries
Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) is a global electrical products manufacturer with 2009 revenues of $5.1 billion. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs. The Company has seven operating divisions with leading market share positions and world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2009, sixty-one percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and thirty-nine percent of total sales were to customers
 
outside the United States. Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2009. For more information, visit the website at .
www.cooperindustries.com
Statements in this news release are forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the ability to develop and introduce new products, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations, and the resolution of potential liabilities and insurance recoveries resulting from on-going Pneumo-Abex related asbestos claims.


