FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20100422105925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
First Quarter 2010 Results of Operations. On April 22, 2010, Cooper Industries plc (the "Company") issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 setting forth the Company's results of operations for the first quarter 2010. The press release includes a reference to free cash flow; the Company's net debt-to-total capitalization ratio; and income from continuing operations and earnings per share for the first quarter 2010, excluding restructuring charges. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the press release. Company management believes that the presentation of free cash flow provides investors an efficient means by which they can evaluate the Companys capacity in the period to reduce debt, repurchase shares and make acquisitions or other investments. Management also uses free cash flow to assess the Company's operating performance and includes free cash flow as a criteria for determini ng incentive compensation for key employees. Company management believes that the net debt-to-total capitalization ratio provides investors with a supplemental ratio that reflects the Companys debt leverage if the Company were to use its cash to pay down debt. Finally, Company management believes that adjusting income from continuing operations and earnings per share to exclude restructuring charges provides investors with a more meaningful assessment of operating results for 2010 and the comparison to operating results for the comparable periods in 2009.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Company press release dated April 22, 2010 titled, "Cooper Industries Reports First Quarter Earnings of $.70 Per Share from Continuing Operations ($.72 Per Share Excluding Restructuring), an Increase of 46% Compared to Last Year".
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) reported first quarter 2010 earnings per share of $.70 (diluted), compared with $.48 per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2009. During the first quarter of 2010 Cooper recognized a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3.5 million or $.02 per share related to factory consolidations. Excluding restructuring, the first quarter 2010 earnings per share was $.72 per share compared to $.47 per share earnings for the first quarter of 2009, excluding restructuring charges and discrete tax items. First quarter 2010 revenues decreased 2.2 percent to $1.23 billion, compared with $1.26 billion for the same period last year. Core revenues were 4.7 percent lower than comparable prior year with currency translation increasing reported revenue by 2.1 percent and acquisitions adding 0.4 percent for the quarter.
Dublin, Ireland, April 22, 2010
"For the last three quarters, we have delivered consistently strong earnings per share on a revenue base that has been essentially flat, demonstrating the permanent nature of our resizing efforts. During the first quarter, we saw revenues improve sequentially as the quarter progressed, with core growth turning positive in March. We are now forecasting positive core growth for the second quarter and the remainder of 2010. We are well positioned to capitalize on the improving market conditions with strong incremental earnings growth," said Cooper Industries' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kirk S. Hachigian.
During the first quarter of 2010 Cooper generated $69.8 million in free cash flow compared with the record $137 million for the same period in 2009. Our total debt net of cash totaled $545.1 million compared to $552.8 million at December 31, 2009. "Our global teams have delivered exceptional free cash flow for the first quarter of 2010, a result of our improved earnings performance and continued efficient working capital utilization. As we begin to see growth in our revenues, our proven ability to manage working capital in both expanding and declining economies gives us confidence that 2010 will be the tenth consecutive year that we will generate free cash flow in excess of recurring income," said Hachigian.
During the first quarter of 2009 Cooper recognized a gain from discontinued operations of $18.9 million (net of tax of $12.0 million) or $.11 per share from negotiated insurance coverage settlements consummated in the first quarter of 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance-in-place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation.
In conjunction with the announcement of a joint venture of the Tools business and change in the organization structure, commencing in 2010, Cooper will modify disclosures related to segment activities. The Electrical Products segment has been divided into two segments reflecting the current management structure of the organization. includes business unit results from the Cooper Crouse-Hinds, Cooper Power Systems, and Cooper Safety Divisions. includes business unit results for the Cooper B-Line, Cooper Bussmann, Cooper Lighting, and Cooper Wiring Devices Divisions. The segment will continue as a segment until the anticipated joint venture is consummated, at which time the results of the Tools segment will be reported as equity income. A comparative historical quarterly and annual segment financial summary has been included to aid in understanding the revised segment disclosure.
Segment Results
Energy & Safety Solutions
Electrical Products Group
Tools
segment revenues for the first quarter of 2010 decreased 6.0 percent to $569.9 million, compared with $606.6 million in the first quarter 2009. Cores revenues were 8.8 percent lower than comparable prior year periods with currency translation increasing reported revenues 1.9 percent and acquisitions adding 0.9 percent for the first quarter. Segment operating earnings, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, were $96.1 million, an increase of 7 percent from the $90.2 million in the prior year's first quarter. Segment operating margin, excluding the restructuring charges, increased 200 basis points to 16.9 percent for the first quarter 2010, compared to the first quarter of 2009.
Energy & Safety Solutions
segment revenues for the first quarter of 2010 decreased 2.2 percent to $512.2 million, compared with $523.9 million in the first quarter 2009. Core revenues were 3.5 percent lower than comparable prior year periods with currency translation increasing reported results 1.3 percent for the first quarter. Segment operating earnings, excluding the impact of restructuring charges, were $73.5 million, an increase of 48 percent from the $49.8 million in the prior year's first quarter.
Electrical Products Group
Segment operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, increased 480 basis points to 14.3 percent for the first quarter of 2010, compared to the first quarter of 2009.
segment revenues for the first quarter of 2010 were $146.5 million, an increase of 16 percent from 2009 first quarter revenues of $126.3 million. Excluding the effects of currency translation, which increased reported revenues in the quarter by 6.7 percent, core revenues for the quarter were 9.3 percent higher than 2009 first quarter. Segment operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, were $12.0 million, compared to the first quarter 2009 loss of $3.9 million. Segment operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, for the first quarter 2010 was 8.2 percent compared to a negative 3.1 percent for the comparable prior year period.
Tools
In the second quarter of 2010, it is anticipated that the Tools joint venture with Danaher Corporation will be completed. The consolidated balance sheet now includes the Tools assets and liabilities to be contributed to the joint venture as separate line items on the balance sheet. Upon consummation of the joint venture, the assets of the joint venture will be valued at fair value and Cooper's ownership interest in the joint venture will be reflected as an equity investment. It is anticipated that Cooper will recognize an after-tax gain from the contribution of the Tools net assets to the joint venture, an after-tax non-cash loss of approximately $100 million primarily from recognition of the cumulative translation adjustment of the Tools segment included in shareholders' equity and the recognition of incremental deferred income taxes on the difference between fair value and income tax basis.
"We remain confident that our diversified portfolio, dedicated employees and proven business initiatives have us well positioned to deliver outstanding and sustainable earnings growth as our end markets continue to recover. Additionally, our exceptionally strong balance sheet and our ability to generate solid cash flow provides us with significant resources to continue to do strategic acquisitions around key business and technology platforms and return capital to our shareholders," commented Hachigian.
Outlook
"For 2010 we are increasing our EPS guidance for continuing operations to $2.85 to $3.00, inclusive of approximately $.07 per share in restructuring charges and the dilution of approximately $.03 per share from the recently completed acquisition of Eka Systems, Inc., with revenue up 2 to 5 percent. For the second quarter of 2010 we expect earnings per share of $.72 to $.77 with revenue up 2 to 5 percent compared to the second quarter of 2009 and up 3 to 5 percent sequentially with the first quarter of 2010. The second quarter guidance includes additional restructuring charges of $.01 to $.02 per share, however, the guidance does not include the anticipated charge from formation of the Tools joint venture," said Hachigian.
About Cooper Industries Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) is a global manufacturer with 2009 revenues of $5.1 billion, approximately eighty-nine percent of which are from electrical products. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs. The Company has eight operating divisions with leading market share positions and world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2009, sixty-one percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and thirty-nine percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States. Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2009. For more information, visit the website at .
www.cooperindustries.com
Comparisons of 2010 and 2009 first quarter results appear on the following pages.
Statements in this news release are forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the ability to develop and introduce new products, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations, and the resolution of potential liabilities and insurance recoveries resulting from on-going Pneumo-Abex related asbestos claims.
Cooper will hold a conference call today at 12:00 noon EDT to provide shareholders and other interested parties an overview of the Company's first quarter 2010 performance. Those interested in hearing the conference call may listen via telephone by dialing (888) 396-2386 using pass code 46109999, or over the Internet in the "Investors" section of the company website, www.cooperindustries.com. International callers should dial (617) 847-8712
and use pass code 46109999.
The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Cooper will post a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the "Investors" section of the Company's website, www.cooperindustries.com.
Informational exhibits concerning the Company's first quarter performance that may be referred to during the conference call will be available in the "Investors" section of the Company's website, www.cooperindustries.com prior to the beginning of the call.


