FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20110602120033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On May 26, 2011, Cooper Industries plc ("Cooper") and its subsidiary Cooper US, Inc. (as Borrowers) and certain other Cooper subsidiaries (as Subsidiary Guarantors) entered into a five-year Credit Agreement with a syndicate of eleven lenders that provides $500 million in a committed bank credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"). Commitments under the Credit Agreement may be increased to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700 million. The Credit Agreement includes a $25 million sublimit for the potential issuance of letters of credit.
The Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance of commercial paper. The Credit Agreement replaces the previously reported $350 million three-year credit agreement dated August 14, 2009 (the "Prior Agreement"), which is now terminated. No borrowings were outstanding at any time under the Prior Agreement. The Credit Agreement has substantially the same material terms and conditions as the Prior Agreement. The only financial covenant in the Credit Agreement limits Cooper's debt-to-total capitalization ratio to 60% and the Agreement is not subject to termination based upon a decrease in Cooper's debt ratings or a material adverse change.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement would bear interest, at Cooper's option, either at (A) a variable annual rate equal to the highest of (1)(a) the base rate publicly announced by Citibank, N.A., (b) / of 1.00% per annum above the Federal Funds rate, and (c) the London interbank offered rate applicable to dollars for a period of one month, plus 1.00%, plus (2) a rate based on Cooper's credit default swap mid-rate spread for a period equal to the remaining term of the lenders' commitment or, if such term is longer than one year, a one-year period, and subject to a floor and a cap as set forth in the Credit Agreement (the "Applicable Margin") minus 1.00% provided such total exceeds zero; or (B) a periodic fixed rate equal to (1) the London interbank offered rate for a period of one, two, three or six months, plus (2) the Applicable Margin. The commitment fee payable by Cooper under the Agreement and the Applicable Margin are subject to change based upon a grid determined by Cooper's long-term debt ratings.
1
2
The Credit Agreement will expire on May 26, 2016, unless the parties agree to extend the Agreement. Upon expiration, all outstanding amounts under the Agreement will be due and payable. Under certain conditions the lending commitments under the Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders and amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated. Bankruptcy and insolvency events with respect to Cooper or its significant subsidiaries will result in an automatic termination of lending commitments and acceleration of the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. Subject to notice and cure periods in certain cases, other events of default under the Credit Agreement will result in termination of lending commitments and acceleration of indebtedness under the Credit Agreement at the option of the lenders. Such other events of default include failure to pay any principal or interest when due, failure to comply with covenants, breach of representations or warranties in any material respect, the occurrence of certain events under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act relating to plans maintained for employees of Cooper or its subsidiaries, if any person or group acquires
Table of Contents
beneficial ownership of 40% or more of Cooper's voting stock, or, during any period of up to 24 consecutive months individuals who were Cooper directors at the beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors.
The description of the Credit Agreement set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
Schedules
Schedule I  Commitments
Schedule 5.02(a)  Existing Liens
Exhibits
 
          COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC, an Irish company (the ""), COOPER US INC., a Delaware corporation (""), the Subsidiary Guarantors named herein, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") and issuers of letters of credit ("") listed on Schedule I hereto, PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as syndication agent, and CITIBANK, N.A. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Company
Cooper US
Initial Lenders
Initial Issuing Banks
Citibank
Agent
          SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means an advance by a Lender to any Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Advance).
Advance
Type
     "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
     "" means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications or such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Company and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agent's Account
     "" means, for each Hedge Agreement, on any date of determination, an amount determined by the Agent equal to the amount, if any, that would be payable by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries to its counterparty to such Hedge Agreement in accordance with its terms as if (i) such Hedge Agreement was being terminated early on such date of determination, (ii) such Loan Party or Subsidiary was the sole "Affected Party" and (iii) the Agent was the sole party determining such payment amount.
Agreement Value
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
     "" means (a) for any Eurodollar Rate Advance, a percentage per annum equal to the Market Rate Spread on the Spread Determination Date for such Advance and (b) for any Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum that is 100 basis points lower than the Market Rate Spread on the Spread Determination Date for such Advance; that in no event shall the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances be lower than 0.00%.
Applicable Margin
provided
     "" means, as of any date a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
     "" means an Assignment and Assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Assumption
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
     "" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).
Available Amount
     "" means any proceeding of the type referred to in Section 6.01(e) or Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
     "" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
     (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibank's base rate;
     (b) / of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
1
2
     (c) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month ("One Month LIBOR") plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
 
     "" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
     "" means, collectively, the Company and Cooper US.
Borrowers
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders.
Borrowing
     "" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, Business Day also includes a day on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
     "" means, in respect of an obligation, provide and pledge (as a first priority perfected security interest) cash collateral in Dollars, at a location and pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and each Issuing Bank (and "" has a corresponding meaning).
Cash Collateralize
Cash Collateralization
     "" means a Revolving Credit Commitment or a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Commitment
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Consenting Lender
     "" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
     "" means any Subsidiary (whether now existing or hereafter organized or acquired) which was at December 31, 2010, or which at any time thereafter is, consolidated with the Company in any consolidated financial statement furnished to any Lender.
Consolidated Subsidiary
     "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
     "" means at any time capitalized lease obligations and debt created, issued, guaranteed (whether directly, or indirectly by way of agreement, contingent or otherwise, to purchase, to provide funds for payment, to supply funds to or otherwise invest in the debtor, or otherwise to assure the creditor against loss), incurred or assumed for money borrowed or for the deferred (for 91 days or more) purchase price of property or services purchased, excluding, however, accounts payable (other than for borrowed money or for such deferred purchase price) and accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business, obligations created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), and obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit.
Debt
     "" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 
     "" means at any time, subject to Section 2.20(c), (i) any Lender that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance or to make a payment to an Issuing Bank in respect of drawing under a Letter of Credit or make any other payment due hereunder (each, a ""), unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Company in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding has not been satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing), (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent, the Company and an Issuing Bank in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, unless such writing or statement states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding cannot be satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing or public statement), (iii) any Lender that has defaulted on its funding obligations under other loan agreements or credit agreements generally under which it has commitments to extend credit or that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Company in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally, (iv) any Lender that has, for three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Company, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Company that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Company's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which, or with respect to which the Parent Company of which, a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing; that a Lender Insolvency Event shall not be deemed to occur with respect to a Lender solely as a result of the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or Parent Company (directly or indirectly) by a governmental authority or instrumentality thereof where such action does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such governmental authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(c)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent to the Company, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders.
Defaulting Lender
funding obligation
provided
     "" and the "" sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Company and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
     "" means (i) a Lender; (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender; and (iii) any other Person approved by the Agent, each Issuing Bank and, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time any assignment is effected in accordance with Section 9.07 or Assumption Agreement is entered into in accordance with Section 2.18(d), the Company, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; , , that no natural person and neither the Company nor an Affiliate of the Company shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
however
 
     "" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
     "" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
     "" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of Cooper US's controlled group, or under common control with Cooper US, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the withdrawal by Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (e) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (f) a determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA); or (g) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
     "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Company and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
     "" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters
Eurodollar Rate
 
LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars is offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period. If the Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.08.
subject
however
     "" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
     "" for any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advance made by any Lender means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Extension Date
     "" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, including any regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
     "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
     "" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, with respect to any Issuing Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Ratable Share of the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit and Advances made by such Issuing Bank in accordance with Section 2.03 that have not been funded by the Lenders (collectively, "") with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank other than L/C Exposure as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
L/C Exposure
 
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
Guaranteed Obligations
     "" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.08.
Information
     "" means the information memorandum dated April 28, 2011, as modified and supplemented prior to the date hereof, used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
     "" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph hereof.
Initial Issuing Bank
     "" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower requesting such Borrowing pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, as the applicable Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
     (a) the Borrowers may not select any Interest Period that ends after the latest Termination Date;
     (b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
     (c) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
 
     (d) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
     "" with respect to any Letter of Credit means the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit.
Issuance
     "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Eligible Assignee to which a portion of the Letter of Credit Commitment hereunder has been assigned pursuant to Section 9.07 or any other Lender appointed by the Company so long as such Eligible Assignee or Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Letter of Credit Commitment and its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), for so long as such Initial Issuing Bank, Eligible Assignee or Lender, as the case may be, shall have a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Issuing Bank
     "" means an interest bearing cash collateral account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon terms as may be satisfactory to the Agent and the Company.
L/C Cash Collateral Account
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Fronting Exposure."
L/C Exposure
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(i).
L/C Related Documents
     "" means that (i) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
     "" means each Initial Lender, each Issuing Bank, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 9.07.
Lenders
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
     "" means, with respect to each Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrowers and their specified Subsidiaries in (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite the Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Letter of Credit Commitment" or (b) if such Issuing Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions or has otherwise become an Issuing
Letter of Credit Commitment
 
Bank after the date hereof, the Dollar amount set forth for such Issuing Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) as such Issuing Bank's "Letter of Credit Commitment", in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
     "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the least of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Letter of Credit Commitments at such time, (b) $25,000,000 and (c) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Facility
     "" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Lien
     "" means the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Loan Party
     "" means, for any Advance, a rate per annum equal to the credit default swap mid-rate spread of Cooper Industries, Ltd. or its successors ("") interpolated from the Spread Determination Date for such Advance to the latest Termination Date in effect on such Spread Determination Date (or, if the period from such Spread Determination Date to such latest Termination Date is less than one year, then the one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of CIL), in each case determined as of the close of business, New York time, on the Business Day immediately prior to the applicable Spread Determination Date and based on the credit default swap mid-rate spreads specified by Markit Group Ltd. or any successor, subject to a minimum rate and a maximum rate as determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Market Rate Spread
CIL
     If CIL's interpolated credit default swap spread, or one-year credit default swap spread, as the case may be, as specified by Markit Group Ltd. (or any successor) is unavailable, the Company and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith (for a period of up to thirty days after such spread becomes unavailable (such thirty-day period, the "")) to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin. The Applicable Margin at any determination date thereof which falls during the Negotiation Period shall be based upon the then most recently available quote of the Market Rate Spread. If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, the Applicable Margin at any determination date subsequent to the end of the Negotiation Period shall be a rate per annum equal to the maximum rate
Negotiation Period
 
applicable from time to time as determined in the immediately preceding paragraph. If CIL's interpolated credit default swap spread or one-year credit default swap spread, as the case may be, again becomes available through Markit Group Ltd. (or any successor), then Market Rate Spread shall be determined on the basis of such credit default swap spread as set forth above.
     "" means any material adverse change in the business, assets, financial condition or operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
     "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, financial condition or operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Loan Parties, taken as a whole, to perform their obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than Cooper US and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
     "" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
Non-Defaulting Lender
     "" means a promissory note of any Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of such Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender to such Borrower.
Note
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
     "" means consolidated earnings of the Company and the Consolidated Subsidiaries before income taxes, interest expense and general corporate expenses, determined in accordance with GAAP, except that unrealized appreciation in the value of investment in, and undistributed earnings of, Subsidiaries not consolidated will not be included.
Operating Earnings
     "" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, or if such Lender does not have a bank holding company, then any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
Parent Company
 
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in clause (d) of Section 9.07.
Participant
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.06(c).
Participant Register
     "" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001.
Patriot Act
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
     "" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which appropriate reserves are maintained; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; and (d) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes.
Permitted Liens
     "" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
     "" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Post-Petition Interest
     "" means, as of any date, the highest rating most recently announced by either S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, of (i) any senior unsecured long-term debt for borrowed money of any Consolidated Subsidiary which is fully guaranteed by the Company or (ii) the long-term corporate credit of the Company. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the minimum and maximum Market Rate Spread and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S&P nor Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the minimum and maximum Market Rate Spread and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 5 under the definition of "" or "", as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different levels, the minimum and maximum Market Rate Spread and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the higher rating unless the such ratings differ by two or more levels, in which case the applicable level will be deemed to be one level above the lower of such levels; (d) if any rating established by S&P or Moody's shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P or Moody's shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be.
Public Debt Rating
Market Rate Spread
Applicable Percentage
 
     "" means a Lender which at the time any payment of interest is made hereunder, is beneficially entitled to the interest payable to that Lender in respect of an Advance and is:
Qualifying Lender
provided that such body corporate does not have its Applicable Lending Office located in Ireland; or
 
     "" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment as in effect immediately prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of all Revolving Credit Commitments at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate amount of all Revolving Credit Commitments as in effect immediately prior to such termination).
Ratable Share
times
     "" means Citibank and PNC Bank, National Association.
Reference Banks
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.07(c).
Register
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Revolving Credit Commitments; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Revolving Credit Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
     "" means as to any Lender (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto as such Lender's "Revolving Credit Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Assumption, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Revolving Credit Commitment
     "" means Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
     "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than Cooper US and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of
Single Employer Plan
 
which Cooper US or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan were to be terminated.
     "" means each Subsidiary the consolidated revenues of which equal 5% or more of the Consolidated revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters.
Significant Subsidiary
     "" means, for any Advance, the date that is two Business Days before the date such Advance is to be made.
Spread Determination Date
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Subordinated Obligations
     "" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
     "" means each of Cooper US Inc., Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, LLC, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC, Cooper Lighting, LLC, Cooper Power Systems, LLC and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
Subsidiary Guarantor
     "" means the earlier of (a) May 26, 2016, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.19 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
     " means a Lender which is entitled under a double taxation agreement between the jurisdiction in which such Lender is resident for tax purposes and the Republic of Ireland, subject to the completion of any necessary procedural formalities, to receive all payments under this Agreement without a deduction for or on account of taxes;
Treaty Lender"
     "" means, with respect to any Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of any Borrower or its specified Subsidiaries in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the amount of its Letter of Credit Commitment over (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment
     "" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Ratable Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amounts of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not
Unused Commitment
minus
plus
 
been ratably funded by such Lender and outstanding at such time, after giving effect to any adjustments made in accordance with Section 2.20(a).
     "" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
          SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
          SECTION 1.03. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ("").
Accounting Terms
GAAP
          SECTION 2.01. . (a) . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an amount not to exceed such Lender's Unused Commitment. Each Borrowing shall be in an amount not less than $5,000,000 or $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment, any Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Advances and Letters of Credit
The Advances
          (b) . Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Agreement, to issue letters of credit (each, a "") denominated in Dollars for the account of any Borrower and its specified Subsidiaries from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date applicable to such Issuing Bank in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Letter of Credit Facility at such time and (y) such Issuing Bank's Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the applicable Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later than 10 Business Days before the Termination Date, that no Letter of Credit may expire after the Termination Date of any Non-Consenting Lender if, after giving effect to such issuance, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Consenting Lenders (including any replacement Lenders) for the period following such Termination Date would be less than the Available Amount of the Letters of Credit expiring after such Termination Date. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrowers may from time to time request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b). Each letter of credit listed on Schedule 2.01(b) shall be deemed to constitute a Letter of Credit issued hereunder, and each Lender that is an issuer of such a Letter of Credit shall, for purposes of Section 2.03, be deemed to be an Issuing Bank for each
Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
provided
 
such letter of credit, than any renewal or replacement of any such letter of credit shall be issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
provided
          SECTION 2.02. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.03(c), each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances or (y) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by any Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower requesting the Borrowing at the Agent's address referred to in Section 9.02.
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
          (b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrowers may not select Eurodollar Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than $5,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurodollar Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than six separate Borrowings.
          (c) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower requesting the Borrowing. In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, such Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
          (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower requesting the Borrowing on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to the Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
          (e) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.03. . (a) . (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by any Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent, prompt notice thereof. Each such notice by a Borrower of Issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be by telecopier or telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such Issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit, (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit shall be issued pursuant to such application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank and the applicable Borrower shall agree for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ""). If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its reasonable discretion (it being understood that any such form shall have only explicit documentary conditions to draw and shall not include discretionary conditions), such Issuing Bank will, unless such Issuing Bank has received written notice from any Lender, the Agent or the Company, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in Section 3.02 shall not be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Issuing Bank shall make such Letter of Credit available to the applicable Borrower at its office referred to in Section 9.02 or as otherwise agreed with such Borrower in connection with such Issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
Letter of Credit Agreement
          (b) . By the Issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing or decreasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to such Borrower for any reason, which amount will be advanced, and deemed to be an Advance to such Borrower hereunder, regardless of the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.02. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment is amended pursuant to a Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18, an assignment in accordance with Section 9.07 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
Participations
 
          (c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit which is not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft, without regard to whether the making of such an Advance would exceed such Issuing Bank's Unused Commitment. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the applicable Borrower and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent and the applicable Borrower, each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance pursuant to Section 2.03(b). Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make Advances pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
          (d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent and each Lender (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing Issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and (B) to the Agent and each Lender (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit Reports
          (e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
          SECTION 2.04. . (a) . Cooper US agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Unused Commitment (as in effect from time to time) from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing June 30, 2011, and on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and Cooper US shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
 
          (b) . (i) Each Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commission on such Lender's Ratable Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Advances in effect from time to time during such calendar quarter, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the quarter ended June 30, 2011, and on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender; that the Applicable Margin shall be 2% above the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Advances in effect upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default if such Borrower is required to pay default interest pursuant to Section 2.07(b); , that (i) to the extent that all or a portion of the L/C Exposure of any Defaulting Lender is reallocated to the Non-Defaulting Lenders pursuant to Section 2.20(a), such fees that would have accrued for the benefit of such Defaulting Lender will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to such Non-Defaulting Lenders, in accordance with their respective Commitments, and (ii) to the extent that all or any portion of such L/C Exposure cannot be so reallocated, such fees will instead accrue for the benefit of and be payable to the Issuing Banks.
Letter of Credit Fees
provided
provided,
further
pro
rata
     (ii) Each Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank, for its own account, a fronting fee and such other commissions, issuance fees, transfer fees and other fees and charges in connection with the Issuance or administration of each Letter of Credit as such Borrower and such Issuing Bank shall agree.
          (c) . Cooper US shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Company and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
          SECTION 2.05. . (a) . The Company shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the Unused Commitments or the Unissued Letter of Credit Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
Ratable Reduction
provided
          (b) . The Company shall have the right, at any time, upon at least three Business Days' notice to a Defaulting Lender (with a copy to the Agent), to terminate in whole such Defaulting Lender's Commitment. Such termination shall be effective with respect to such Defaulting Lender's unused Commitment on the date set forth in such notice, , , that such date shall be no earlier than three Business Days after receipt of such notice. Upon termination of a Lender's Commitment under this Section 2.05(b), the Borrowers will pay all principal of, and interest accrued to the date of such payment on, Advances owing to such Defaulting Lender and pay any accrued commitment fee payable to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04(a), and all other amounts payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder (including, but not limited to, any increased costs, additional interest or other amounts owing under Section 2.11, any indemnification for taxes under Section 2.14, and any compensation payments due as provided in Section 9.04(c)); and upon such payments, the obligations of such Defaulting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged; , , that (i) such Defaulting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 9.04 shall survive such release and discharge as to matters occurring prior to such date; and (ii) no claim that the Borrowers may have against such Defaulting Lender arising out of such Defaulting Lender's default hereunder shall be released or impaired in any way. The aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders once reduced pursuant to this Section 2.05(b) may not be reinstated; , , that if pursuant to this Section 2.05(b), the Borrowers shall pay to a Defaulting Lender any principal of, or interest accrued on, the Advances owing to such Defaulting Lender, then the Borrowers shall either (x) confirm to the Agent that the
Non-Ratable Reduction
provided
however
provided
however
provided further
however
 
conditions set forth in Section 3.02(a) are met on and as of such date of payment or (y) pay or cause to be paid a ratable payment of principal and interest to all Lenders who are not Defaulting Lenders.
          SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Each Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of each Lender on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made to it by such Lender and then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances and Letter of Credit Drawings
Advances
          (b) . The obligations of each Borrower under any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by such Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights such Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by such Borrower thereof):
Letter of Credit Drawings
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "");
L/C Related Documents
     (ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
     (iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that such Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, the Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
     (iv) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
     (v) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
     (vi) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of such Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
     (vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, such Borrower or a guarantor.
          SECTION 2.07. . (a) . Each Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
Advance made to it and owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
     (i) . During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
     (ii) . During such periods as such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
plus
          (b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrowers to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above; , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
          SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees, if requested by the Agent, to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurodollar Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Company and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
          (b) If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Company and the Lenders, whereupon (i) the Borrower of such Eurodollar Rate Advances will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, either prepay such Advances or Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be
 
suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
          (c) If any Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify such Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
          (d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $5,000,000, such Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances.
          (e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended.
          (f) If Reuters LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any Eurodollar Rate Advances after the Agent has requested such information,
     (i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the applicable Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances,
     (ii) each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
     (iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
          SECTION 2.09. . The Borrower of any Advance may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(c) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(c). Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower giving such notice.
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
          SECTION 2.10. . Each Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days' prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New
Optional Prepayments of Advances
 
York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment of Advances shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than $5,000,000 or $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, such Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 9.04(c).
provided
however
          SECTION 2.11. . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation after the date hereof or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law) after the date hereof, there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances or of agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of net income or gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Company shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such designation would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost and stating the reason for such increased cost (provided that such certificate shall not be required to include any calculations of such increased cost), submitted to the Company and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs and Additional Interest
provided
however
          (b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder and other commitments of such type or the issuance or maintenance of or participation in the Letters of Credit (or similar contingent obligations), then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Company shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder or to the issuance or maintenance of or participation in any Letters of Credit. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.11(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy (x) issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or (y) promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued. A certificate as to such amounts and stating the reason for such amounts (provided that such certificate shall not be required to include any calculations of such
 
amounts) submitted to the Company and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
          (c) Cooper US shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender any costs actually incurred by such Lender that are attributable to such Lender's compliance with regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System requiring the maintenance of reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities. Such costs shall be paid to the Agent for the account of such Lender in the form of additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Advance of such Lender, from the date such Advance is made until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for the Interest Period for such Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each date that interest is payable on the principal amount of such Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified Cooper US through the Agent at least two Business Days prior to the relevant date for payment of such interest, , that failure to so notify Cooper US shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to request and receive additional interest under this subsection (c). A certificate as to the amount of such additional interest and stating the reason for such additional interest (provided that such certificate shall not be required to include any calculations of such additional interest), submitted to Cooper US and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
          (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Company shall not be required to compensate such Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the change in law or circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the change in law or circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (a) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
          SECTION 2.13. . (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be
Payments and Computations
 
distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest, fees or commissions ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.04(b), 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18 or an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.19, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 9.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
          (b) Each Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of such Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
          (c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
          (d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, fee or commission, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
          (e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from any Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent such Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
          SECTION 2.14. . (a) Any and all payments by each Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto,
Taxes
 
, in the case of each Lender and the Agent (x) taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction in which such Lender's Applicable Lending Office is located or any political subdivision thereof and (y) any United States federal withholding taxes imposed by FATCA (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ""). If any Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law provided that clause (i) shall not apply to any Taxes imposed by the Republic of Ireland required to be deducted by the Company if the payment could have been made to the relevant Lender without such a deduction if such Lender was a Qualifying Lender, but on that date that Lender is not or has ceased to be a Qualifying Lender other than as a result of any change after the date it became a Lender under this Agreement in (or in the interpretation, administration, or application of) any law (including any double tax treaty), or any published practice or concession of any relevant taxing authority.
excluding
Taxes
          (b) In addition, the Company shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
          (c) Each Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor. Such written demand shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis and calculation of the amount of Taxes or Other Taxes for which indemnification is claimed.
          (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, each Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 9.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder by or on behalf of such Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of such Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if such Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, such Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
United States person
          (e) (i) Any Lender that is a United States person shall deliver to Cooper US and the Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and
 
from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of Cooper US or the Agent), two Internal Revenue Service Forms W-9 certifying, to the extent such Lender is legally entitled to do so, that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal backup withholding tax.
          (ii) Each Lender that is not a United States person, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by Cooper US (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and Cooper US with two original Internal Revenue Service Forms W-8BEN, W-8ECI or W-8IMY, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, together with any required statements or attachments thereto, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes. In the case of a Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, such Lender shall provide each of the Agent and Cooper US with two original Internal Revenue Service Forms W-8BEN, together with a duly executed certificate to the effect that such Lender is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code. If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, W-8ECI or W-8IMY, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Company and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
provided
however
          (iii) If a payment made to a Lender hereunder would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to Cooper US and the Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by Cooper US or the Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Agent as may be necessary for the Borrowers and the Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA and, as necessary, to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this Section 2.14(e)(ii), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
          (iv) Each Lender on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by the Company, shall provide each of the
 
Agent and the Company with a confirmation that it is a Qualifying Lender provided that it is lawfully able to do so.
          (f) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Company with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.14(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form, certificate or other document otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Company shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
          (g) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
          (h) If any Lender determines that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which such Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.14, it shall pay over such refund to such Borrower, net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant governmental authority with respect to such refund). This subsection shall not be construed to require any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrowers.
          SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than (x) in respect of Defaulting Lenders, (y) as payment of an Advance made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the first sentence of Section 2.03(c) or (z) pursuant to Section 2.05(b), 2.11, 2.14 or 9.04(c)) in excess of its Ratable Share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders (other than any Defaulting Lenders) such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Each Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
          SECTION 2.16. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to
Evidence of Debt
 
time hereunder in respect of Advances. Each Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
          (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 9.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from such Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
          (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
          SECTION 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and each Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Company may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar year prior to the latest Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $700,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Company for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
          (b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Company for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Company and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
 
          (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Company as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Company may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees approved by the Agent and each Issuing Bank to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
provided
however
          (d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(b) (each such Eligible Assignee, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
     (i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Company (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto;
     (ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Agent and the Company; and
Assumption Agreement
     (iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Company and the Agent.
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Company, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, in the case of such Assuming Lender, an amount equal to such Assuming Lender's ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) and, in the case of such Increasing Lender, an amount equal to the excess of (i) such Increasing Lender's ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) over (ii) such Increasing Lender's ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase). After the Agent's receipt of such funds from each such Increasing Lender and each such Assuming Lender, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds to the other Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices in an amount to each other Lender such that the aggregate amount of the outstanding Advances owing to each Lender after giving effect to such
 
distribution equals such Lender's ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Revolving Credit Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase).
          SECTION 2.19. . (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to each anniversary of the Effective Date, the Company, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date applicable to each Lender in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not earlier than 30 days prior nor later than 20 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Company and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Company in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 20 days prior to such anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Agent shall notify the Company not later than 15 days prior to the applicable anniversary date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Company's request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
          (b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the Termination Date (the ""), be extended for one year; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.19, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.19 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.19 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Company, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 9.04, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Company for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
          (c) If fewer than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 10 days prior to the Termination Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders' Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between the Company and the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remains any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Company may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees approved by the Agent and each Issuing Bank as Assuming Lenders to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such
provided
however
 
Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
provided
further
     (i) any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid commitment fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
     (ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
     (iii) with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 9.07(b) for such assignment shall have been paid;
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04, and its obligations under Section 9.04, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Company and the Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Company and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Company and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
provided
further
          (d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.19) Lenders having Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Company, and, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions in Section 3.02, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
          SECTION 2.20. . (a) If a Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, the following provisions shall apply:
Defaulting Lenders
 
     (i) so long as no Event of Default shall be continuing or would result therefrom, such Defaulting Lenders' Ratable Share of the L/C Exposure will, subject to the limitation in the proviso below, automatically be reallocated (effective on the day such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender) among the Non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments; that (A) the sum of each Non-Defaulting Lender's aggregate principal amount of Advances and allocated share of the L/C Exposure may not in any event exceed the Commitment of such Non-Defaulting Lender as in effect at the time of such reallocation and (B) neither such reallocation nor any payment by a Non-Defaulting Lender pursuant thereto will constitute a waiver or release of any claim any Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any other Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender or cause such Defaulting Lender to be a Non-Defaulting Lender;
pro
rata
provided
     (ii) to the extent that any portion (the "") of the Defaulting Lender's share of the L/C Exposure cannot be so reallocated, whether by reason of the proviso in clause (i) above or otherwise, the Borrowers will, not later than three Business Days after demand by the Agent (at the direction of an Issuing Bank), (A) Cash Collateralize the obligations of the Borrowers to the Issuing Bank in respect of such L/C Exposure in an amount at least equal to the aggregate amount of the unreallocated portion of such L/C Exposure, or (B) make other arrangements satisfactory to the Agent and to each Issuing Bank in their sole discretion to protect them against the risk of non-payment by such Defaulting Lender; and
unreallocated portion
     (iii) any amount paid by the Borrowers or otherwise received by the Agent for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity payments or other amounts) will not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but will instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until (subject to Section 2.20(c)) the termination of the Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and will be applied by the Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to the making of payments from time to time in the following order of priority: to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent under this Agreement, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to an Issuing Bank ( as to the respective amounts owing to each of them) under this Agreement, to the payment of post-default interest and then current interest due and payable to the Lenders hereunder other than Defaulting Lenders, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such interest then due and payable to them, to the payment of fees then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such fees then due and payable to them, to pay principal then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder ratably in accordance with the amounts thereof then due and payable to them, to the ratable payment of other amounts then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders, and after the termination of the Commitments, expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrowers hereunder, to pay amounts owing under this Agreement to such Defaulting Lender or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
first
second
pro
rata
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
          (b) No Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.20, performance by any Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.20. The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.20 are in addition to any other
 
rights and remedies which any Borrower, the Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
          (c) If the Company and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances and L/C Exposure of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and L/C Exposure to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrowers while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 2.21. . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or if any Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any governmental authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 9.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Replacement of Lenders
provided
     (a) the Company shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 9.07;
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and participations in Letter of Credit drawings, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts under Section 8.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts);
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law.
          A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
          SECTION 3.01. . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
     (a) Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries as they shall have requested.
     (b) The Company shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).
     (c) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
     (i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
     (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
     (d) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
     (i) The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
     (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the board of directors or sole member (as applicable) of each Loan Party approving this Agreement and, in the case of the Borrowers, the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and, in the case of the Borrowers, the Notes.
     (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each Loan Party certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign this Agreement and, in the case of the Borrowers, the Notes, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
     (iv) A favorable opinion of King & Spalding LLP, special New York counsel for the Company, Arthur Cox, special Irish counsel for the Company, and in-house counsel for Loan Parties, substantially in the form of Exhibits D-1, D-2 and D-3 hereto, respectively, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
     (v) A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
     (e) The Company shall have terminated the commitments of the lenders and repaid or prepaid all of the obligations under, the Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2009 among the Company, Cooper US, and the lenders parties thereto and Citibank, as agent for said lenders, and each of the Lenders that is a party to such credit facility hereby waives, upon execution of this Agreement, any notice required by said Credit Agreement relating to the termination of commitments thereunder.
          SECTION 3.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance (other an Advance made by any Issuing Bank or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) on the occasion of each Borrowing, the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit, each Commitment Increase and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance, the applicable Increase Date or the applicable Extension Date (as the case may be) (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Issuance, request for Commitment Increase or request for Commitment extension and the acceptance by any Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing or such issuance shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance, such Increase Date or such Extension Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Issuance,Commitment Increase and Extension Date
     (i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of Borrowings and issuances, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct in all material respects on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or such Extension Date and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and
     (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or such Extension Date or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default;
and (b) the Agent shall have received such other information in respect of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
          In addition to the other conditions precedent herein set forth, if any Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, no Issuing Bank will be required to issue any Letter of Credit or to amend any outstanding Letter of Credit to increase the face amount thereof, alter the drawing terms thereunder or extend the expiry date thereof unless such Issuing Bank is satisfied that any Fronting Exposure that would result therefrom is eliminated or fully covered by the Commitments of the Non-Defaulting Lenders or by Cash Collateralization or a combination thereof satisfactory to such Issuing Bank.
          SECTION 3.03. . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Company, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
          SECTION 4.01. . The Company represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) Each Loan Party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of this Agreement and the Notes, if any, to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within such Loan Party's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or limited liability company action, and do not contravene (i) such Loan Party's charter, by-laws or other constating documents or (ii) law or any agreement purporting to limit such Loan Party's right to borrow money or guaranty obligations (including credit agreements, indentures, guarantees and other instruments), other than for goods and services purchased in the ordinary course of business (which are not material in amount) binding on or affecting such Loan Party.
     (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of this Agreement or the Notes, if any, to be delivered by it.
     (d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes, if any, to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes, if any, when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party that is slated to be a party thereto, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or law.
     (e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Ernst & Young, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the three months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Company, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at March 31, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the three months then ended, to absence of year-end notes and to normal year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change except for any changes or events that are disclosed in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof.
 
     (f) There is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note.
     (g) No Borrower is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Following the application of the proceeds of each Advance, no more than 25% of the value of the aggregate assets of each Borrower that are subject to the restrictions of Section 5.02(a) or clause (c) of Section 5.02(b) will consist of, or will be represented by, margin stock.
     (h) No Borrower is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     (i) Neither the Information Memorandum nor any other information, exhibit or report furnished by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation and syndication of this Agreement or pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made therein, when taken as a whole, not misleading in light of the circumstances in which such statements were made.
     (j) The Company and each Consolidated Subsidiary have filed all tax returns which were required to be filed except where failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and paid all taxes shown thereon to be due, including interest and penalties, or are contesting same in good faith and by proper proceedings and have provided adequate reserves for payment thereof.
     (k) The Company and its Subsidiaries had good title to their respective properties and assets, free and clear of all mortgages and encumbrances, except such as are permitted by Section 5.02(a) and except covenants, restrictions, rights, easements and minor irregularities in title which do not interfere with the occupation, use and enjoyment by the Company or such Subsidiaries of such properties and assets in the normal course of business as presently conducted or do not materially impair the value thereof for such business.
     (l) The Company, Cooper US and each ERISA Affiliate have met their minimum funding requirements under ERISA with respect to all of their Plans and have not incurred any material liabilities to the PBGC under ERISA in connection with any such Plan.
          SECTION 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Company will:
Affirmative Covenants
 
     (a) . Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA, Environmental Laws and the Patriot Act.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
     (b) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
     (c) . Maintain, and cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Company or such Significant Subsidiary operates; , , that the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Company or such Significant Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
     (d) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Company and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Company, such Subsidiary or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
     (e) . At any reasonable time during customary business hours and upon reasonable prior notice and from time to time, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Company and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants; provided, that so long as no Event of Default is continuing, such visits shall be limited to two times per fiscal year.
Visitation Rights
     (f) . Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Company and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
     (g) . Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are useful and necessary in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
 
     (h) . Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates (other than any Affiliate that is a Loan Party) on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; that the foregoing shall not prohibit transactions between or among the Company and any of its Subsidiaries that does not involve any other Affiliate.
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
     (i) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
     (i) as soon as available and in any event within five days after such statements are due to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to absence of year-end notes and to normal year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Company as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Company as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Company shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
     (ii) as soon as available and in any event within five days after such statements are due to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for each fiscal year of the Company, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Company and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion of the Company's independent public accountantswhich opinion shall not be subject to (a) any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or (b) any qualification or exception as to the scope of the related auditand certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Company as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Company shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
,
,
provided
     (iii) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after becoming aware of the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Company setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
     (iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements that the Company sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements that the Company or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
     (v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
     (vi) such other information respecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
          The financial statements and reports described in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of this Section 5.01(h) will be deemed to have been delivered hereunder if posted on the Company's website at www.cooperindustries.com or publicly available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's EDGAR Database no later than the date specified for delivery of same in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of this Section 5.01(h), as applicable.
          SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Company will not:
Negative Covenants
     (a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
     (i) Permitted Liens,
     (ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
provided
however
     (iii) the Liens securing Debt and obligations in respect of Hedge Agreements existing on the Effective Date, which Liens in principal amount (or, in the case of any Hedge Agreement, Agreement Value) in excess of $10,000,000 are described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
     (iv) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or becomes a Subsidiary of the Company; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than
provided
 
those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Company or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary,
     (v) other Liens securing Debt and obligations in respect of Hedge Agreements in an aggregate principal amount (and, in the case of any Hedge Agreement, Agreement Value) not to exceed $250,000,000 at any time outstanding,
     (vi) Liens securing Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets or stock of another Person; provided that on a basis after giving effect to any such acquisition, the Company shall be in compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 5.03; , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover properties other than the assets or stock (as applicable) being acquired in connection with such acquisition,
pro forma
provided
further
     (vii) Liens incurred in connection with sales of accounts receivable to factors or other third parties in the ordinary course of business for purposes of collection,
     (viii) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any state thereof or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute, or to secure any Debt payable to the foregoing incurred for the purpose of financing or refinancing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such interests, including without limitation interests to secure Debt in respect of any pollution control, industrial revenue bond or similar type of financing, and
     (ix) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii) or (iv) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Debt and obligations in respect of Hedge Agreements, as applicable, secured thereby.
     (b) . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial part of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that (a) any Subsidiary of the Company may merge into, consolidate with or dispose of assets to the Company or any other Subsidiary of the Company; provided that if a Loan Party disposes of substantially all of its assets to a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party, the Subsidiary that is the transferee of such assets shall expressly assume the obligations of the Loan Party hereunder, (b) the Company may merge with any other Person so long as the Company is the surviving Person, (c) the Company or any Subsidiary may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets in a transaction (including a transfer of assets through a merger or consolidation) with any other Person that is not a Subsidiary, if the assets so disposed contributed less than 15% of Operating Earnings for the fiscal year then most recently ended and (d) a Person that is not a Subsidiary may be merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Subsidiary; , in each case, that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.
Mergers, Etc
provided
     (c) . Make, or permit any of its Significant Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to make, any material change in the nature of its businesses as carried on at the date hereof.
Change in Nature of Business
 
          SECTION 5.03. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Company will as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Company, maintain a ratio of Consolidated Debt to the sum of Consolidated Debt plus Consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.60 : 1.00.
Financial Covenant
          SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
     (a) Any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
     (b) Any representation or warranty made by any Borrower herein or by any Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
     (c) (i) The Company shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d) (with respect to maintenance of existence), (h) or (i)(iii), 5.02 or 5.03 or (ii) any Loan Party shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Company by the Agent or any Lender; or
     (d) The Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt or any obligation in respect of any Hedge Agreement that is outstanding in a principal amount (or, in the case of any Hedge Agreement, an Agreement Value) of at least $50,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Company or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt or obligation in respect of such Hedge Agreement; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt or obligation in respect of such Hedge Agreement and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of such Debt or obligation in respect of such Hedge Agreement; or any such Debt or obligation in respect of such Hedge Agreement shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption, or any prepayment or redemption from the proceeds of equity or debt issuances, condemnation and similar awards. insurance proceeds or from cash flow), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt or obligation in respect of such Hedge Agreement shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
     (e) Any Loan Party or any Significant Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall
 
make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Loan Party or any Significant Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or any Loan Party or any Significant Subsidiary shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
     (f) Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
provided
however
     (g) (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Company (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 40% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Company; or (ii) during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Company shall cease for any reason (other than due to death, retirement or disability) to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Company (except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by 66-2/3% of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Company or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Company and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Company; or (iii) except pursuant to a transaction that is permitted by clause (a) of Section 5.02(b), Cooper US shall for any reason cease to be a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Company; or
     (h) (i) The occurrence of any ERISA Event, (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of Cooper US or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan or (iii) the reorganization, insolvency or termination of a Multiemployer Plan or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is in "endangered" or "critical" status within the meaning of Section 432 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 305 of ERISA, which event or condition described in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
     (i) any provision of Article VII shall for any reason cease to be valid and binding on or enforceable against any Loan Party, or any Loan Party shall so state in writing;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower.
provided
however
          SECTION 6.02. . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Required Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrowers to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrowers will, (a) pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding or (b) make such other arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Required Lenders and not more disadvantageous to the Borrowers than clause (a); , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit shall be immediately due and payable to the Agent for the account of the Lenders without notice to or demand upon the Borrowers, which are expressly waived by each Borrower, to be held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account. If at any time an Event of Default is continuing the Agent determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account are subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrowers will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account that the Agent determines to be free and clear of any such right and claim. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full or if no Event of Default is continuing at any time, the balance, if any, in such L/C Cash Collateral Account shall be returned to the Borrowers.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
provided
however
 
          SECTION 7.01. . (a) Each Loan Party hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably jointly and severally guarantees (as primary obligor and not merely as surety) the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all payment obligations of each Borrower (or, in the case of a Loan Party that is a Borrower, each other Borrower) now or hereafter existing under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being the ""), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Agent or any Lender in enforcing any rights under this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Loan Party's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any Borrower to the Agent or any Lender under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such Borrower.
Unconditional Guaranty; Limitation of Liability
Guaranteed Obligations
          (b) Each Subsidiary Guarantor, and by its acceptance of this Guaranty, the Agent and each Lender, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such Persons that this Guaranty and the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar foreign, federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guaranty and the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Agent, the Lenders and the Loan Parties hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty at any time shall be limited to the maximum amount as will result in the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
          (c) Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that in the event any payment shall be required to be made to the Agent or any Lender under this Guaranty or any other guaranty, such Guarantor will contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, such amounts to each other Loan Party and each other guarantor so as to maximize the aggregate amount paid to the Agent and the Lenders under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes.
          SECTION 7.02. . (a) Each Loan Party guarantees that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Agent or any Lender with respect thereto. The obligations of each Loan Party under or in respect of this Guaranty are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement and the Notes, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against any Loan Party to enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against any Borrower or whether any Borrower is joined in any such action or actions. The liability of each Loan Party under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and the each Loan Party hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following:
Guaranty Absolute
     (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note or any agreement or instrument relating thereto;
     (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under or in
 
respect of this Agreement and the Notes, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from this Agreement or any Note, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise;
     (c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of, or consent to departure from, any other guaranty, for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (d) any manner of application of any collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement and the Notes or any other assets of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (f) any failure of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to such Loan Party any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any Borrower now or hereafter known to the Agent or such Lender (such Loan Party waiving any duty on the part of the Agent and the Lenders to disclose such information);
     (g) the failure of any other Person to execute or deliver this Guaranty or any other guaranty or agreement or the release or reduction of liability of any Loan Party or other guarantor or surety with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations; or
     (h) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by the Agent or any Lender that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Borrower or any other guarantor or surety.
This Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Agent or any Lender or any other Person upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
          SECTION 7.03. . (a) Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for performance, notice of nonperformance, default, acceleration, protest or dishonor and any other notice with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty and any requirement that the Agent or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against any Borrower or any other Person or any collateral.
Waivers and Acknowledgments
     (b) Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right to revoke this Guaranty and acknowledges that this Guaranty is continuing in nature and applies to all Guaranteed Obligations, whether existing now or in the future.
     (c) Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by the Agent or any
 
Lender that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of such Loan Party or other rights of such Loan Party to proceed against any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other Person or any collateral and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the obligations of such Loan Party hereunder.
     (d) Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any duty on the part of the Agent or any Lender to disclose to such Loan Party any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries now or hereafter known by the Agent or such Lender.
     (e) Each Loan Party acknowledges that it will receive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Agreement and the Notes and that the waivers set forth in Section 7.02 and this Section 7.03 are knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
          SECTION 7.04. . Each Loan Party hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees not to exercise any rights that it may now have or hereafter acquire against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of such Loan Party's obligations under or in respect of this Guaranty, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Agent or any Lender against any Borrower or any other insider guarantor or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from any Borrower or any other insider guarantor, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right, unless and until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash, all Letters of Credit shall have expired or been terminated and the Commitments shall have expired or been terminated. If any amount shall be paid to any Loan Party in violation of the immediately preceding sentence at any time prior to the latest of (a) the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, (b) the latest Termination Date and (c) the latest date of expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit, such amount shall be received and held in trust for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, shall be segregated from other property and funds of such Loan Party and shall forthwith be paid or delivered to the Agent in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement or assignment) to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes, or to be held as collateral for any Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guaranty thereafter arising. If (i) any Loan Party shall make payment to the Agent or any Lender of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash, (iii) the latest Termination Date shall have occurred and (iv) all Letters of Credit shall have expired or been terminated, the Agent and the Lenders will, at such Loan Party's request and expense, execute and deliver to such Loan Party appropriate documents, without recourse and without representation or warranty, necessary to evidence the transfer by subrogation to such Loan Party of an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from such payment made by such Loan Party pursuant to this Guaranty.
Subrogation
          SECTION 7.05. . Each Loan Party hereby subordinates any and all debts, liabilities and other obligations owed to such Loan Party by any Borrower (the "") to the Guaranteed Obligations to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth in this Section 7.05:
Subordination
Subordinated Obligations
 
     (a) . Except during the continuance of an Event of Default under (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), such Loan Party may receive regularly scheduled payments from such Borrower on account of the Subordinated Obligations. After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), however, unless the Required Lenders otherwise agree, such Loan Party shall not demand, accept or take any action to collect any payment on account of the Subordinated Obligations.
Prohibited Payments, Etc
     (b) . In any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower, such Loan Party agrees that the Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to receive payment in full in cash of all Guaranteed Obligations (including all interest and expenses accruing after the commencement of a proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, whether or not constituting an allowed claim in such proceeding ("")) before such Loan Party receives payment of any Subordinated Obligations.
Prior Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Post Petition Interest
     (c) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), such Loan Party shall, if the Agent so requests, collect, enforce and receive payments on account of the Subordinated Obligations as trustee for the Agent and the Lenders and deliver such payments to the Agent on account of the Guaranteed Obligations (including all Post Petition Interest), together with any necessary endorsements or other instruments of transfer, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of such Loan Party under the other provisions of this Guaranty.
Turn-Over
     (d) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to such Borrower), the Agent is authorized and empowered (but without any obligation to so do), in its discretion, (i) in the name of such Loan Party, to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and to apply any amounts received thereon to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest), and (ii) to require such Loan Party (A) to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and (B) to pay any amounts received on such obligations to the Agent for application to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest).
Agent Authorization
          SECTION 7.06. . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and a guaranty of payment (not merely of collection) and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the latest of (i) the irrevocable payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, (ii) the latest Termination Date and (iii) the latest date of expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit, (b) be binding upon each Loan Party, its successors and assigns and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Agent and the Lenders and their successors, transferees and assigns. Upon the sale, transfer or other disposition of a Subsidiary Guarantor or all or substantially all of the assets of any Subsidiary Guarantor to the extent permitted in accordance with the terms hereof or upon such Guarantor otherwise ceasing to be a Subsidiary of the Company organized under the laws of a state of the United States of America without violation of the terms of this Agreement, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be automatically released from this Guaranty. Without limiting the generality of clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Agent or any Lender may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Commitments, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) to any other Person, and
Continuing Guaranty; Assignments
 
such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to the Agent or such Lender herein or otherwise, in each case as and to the extent provided in Section 9.07.
          SECTION 8.01. . Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank, N.A. to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the Notes and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, and neither the Company nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third-party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any Notes (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Appointment and Authority
          SECTION 8.02. . The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
          SECTION 8.03. . (a) The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein, and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
          (i) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
          (ii) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein); that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any debtor relief law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any debtor relief law; and
provided
          (iii) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any
 
of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     (b) The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 9.01 or 6.01), or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent in writing by a Borrower, a Lender or an Issuing Bank.
     (c) Neither the Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or the Information Memorandum, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent. The Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrowers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
          SECTION 8.04. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance, extension, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or Issuing Bank unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit, and in the case of a Borrowing, such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company or any other Loan Party), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
          SECTION 8.05. . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any Notes by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective
Delegation of Duties
 
activities in connection with the syndication of the Facilities as well as activities as Agent. The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and non-appealable judgment that the Agent acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub-agents.
          SECTION 8.06. . (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Company. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in New York, New York. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation of Agent
Resignation Effective Date
     (b) If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (v) of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Company and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, in consultation with the Company, appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
     (c) With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (1) the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks hereunder, the retiring or removed Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and Issuing Bank directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent, and the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Company to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Agent was acting as Agent.
     (d) Any resignation pursuant to this Section by a Person acting as Agent shall, unless such Person shall notify the Company and the Lenders otherwise, also act to relieve such Person and its Affiliates of any obligation to advance or issue new, or extend existing, Letters of Credit where such issuance or extension is to occur on or after the effective date of such resignation. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring
 
Issuing Bank and (ii) the retiring Issuing Bank shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder.
          SECTION 8.08. . Each Lender and Issuing Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and Issuing Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
          SECTION 8.09. . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent or co-documentation agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the Notes, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank hereunder.
No Other Duties, etc
          SECTION 9.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders other than in accordance with Section 2.18, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder other than in accordance with Section 2.19, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (f) release any Loan Party from any of its obligations under Section 7.01 or (g) amend this Section 9.01; and that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note and (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks in their capacities as such under this Agreement.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
          SECTION 9.02. . (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc
Notices Generally
 
               (i) if to the Company or any other Loan Party, at the Company's address at 600 Travis Street, Suite 5600, Houston, TX 77002, Attention: Treasurer, Telecopier No. (713) 209-8983, Telephone No. (713) 209-8488;
               (ii) if to the Agent, Citibank, N.A. at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention of Bank Loan Syndications, Facsimile No. (212) 994-0961; Telephone No. (302) 894-6160;
               (iii) if to PNC Bank, National Association in its capacity as Issuing Bank, to it at 6750 Miller Road, Brecksville OH 44141, Attention of Commercial Loan Services (Facsimile No. 877-718-7656; Telephone No. 440-546-7388), and if to any other Issuing Bank, to it at the address provided in writing to the Agent and the Company at the time of its appointment as an Issuing Bank hereunder;
               (iv) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
          Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
          (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
provided
          Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient.
provided
          (c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
          (d) .
Platform
 
               (i) The Company agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
               (ii) The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the Communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Company, any Lender or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Company's or the Agent's transmission of communications through the Platform. "" means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material that the Company provides to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated therein which is distributed to the Agent any Lender or any Issuing Bank by means of electronic communications pursuant to this Section, including through the Platform.
Agent Parties
Communications
          SECTION 9.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
          SECTION 9.04. . (a) Cooper US agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer and duplication expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. Cooper US further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 9.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
          (b) Cooper US agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) (i) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances or Letters of Credit or (ii) the actual or alleged presence of Hazardous Materials on any property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any Environmental Action relating in any way to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries,
Indemnified Party
 
except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 9.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Company, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. Each Loan Party agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances. Additionally (and without limitation of the indemnity provided in this Section) the Agent and each Lender agree not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated herein.
          (c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurodollar Rate Advance is made by any Borrower to or for the account of a Lender (i) other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.05(b), 2.08, 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 9.07 as a result of a demand by the Company pursuant to Section 2.21 or (ii) as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.10 or 2.12, such Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it reasonably incurs as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
          (d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 9.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
          (e) . Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Issuing Bank (in each case, to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrowers and without limiting their obligation to do so) from and against such Lender's ratable share of any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, obligations, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, disbursements and expenses, joint or several, of any kind or nature (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any advisor or counsel for such Person) that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent or any Issuing Bank, as the case may be, in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent or any Issuing Bank hereunder; , , that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, obligations, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, disbursements or expenses resulting from the Agent's or such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct as found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent and each Issuing Bank for its ratable share of any costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) payable by the Company under Section 9.04(a), to the extent that the Agent or such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Borrowers.
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
however
 
          SECTION 9.05. . Upon either (a) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(e) or (b) (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Company or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of the Company or any Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company or the applicable Loan Party after any such set-off and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender exercises any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off will be paid over immediately to the Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.20(a) and, pending such payment, will be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders and (y) the Defaulting Lender will provide promptly to the Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Right of Set-off
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Company, each other Loan Party and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, each other Loan Party, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that neither the Company nor any other Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).
Binding Effect
          SECTION 9.07. . (a) . No Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
          (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Advances at the time owing to it); provided that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
          (i) .
Minimum Amounts
 
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment and Letter of Credit Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $10,000,000, unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advances or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among the Revolving Credit Commitments and the Letter of Credit Commitments on a non-pro rata basis.
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Default has occurred or (y) such assignment is to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, that the Company shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within five Business Days after having received notice thereof;
provided
     (B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments in respect of the Revolving Credit Commitments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender; and
     (C) the consent of each Issuing Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment of the Revolving Credit Commitments.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignmentThe assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
.
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B).
No Assignment to Certain Persons
 
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     (vii) . In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Company and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent, each Issuing Bank and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Revolving Credit Commitment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
          Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11 and 9.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; provided, that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
          (c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by any Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
          (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Company or the Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment
Participations
Participant
 
and/or the Advances owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and (iii) the Borrowers, the Agent, the Issuing Banks and Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 9.04(e) with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
          Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso of Section 9.01 that affects such Participant. The Borrowers agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; provided that such Participant agrees to be subject to the provisions of Section 2.21 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of 9.05 as though it were a Lender; provided that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender.
          Each Lender shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrowers, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under the Loan Documents (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any commitments, loans, letters of credit or its other obligations under any Loan Document) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan, letter of credit or other obligation is in registered form under the Internal Revenue Code. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
Participant Register
provided
          (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 and 2.14 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.14(e) as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
          (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; provided that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
          (h) Any Lender may, with notice to the Agent and the Company, fulfill its Commitment by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act as the Lender in respect of any Borrower (and such Lender shall, to the extent of Advances made to and participations in Letters of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower, be deemed for all purposes hereof to have assigned such Advances and participations to such Affiliate in compliance with the provisions of this Section 9.07(b)(iii)(c)).
pro tanto
 
          SECTION 9.08. . Each of the Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Bank agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' Related Parties (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Company and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company.
Confidentiality
          For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
          SECTION 9.09. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          SECTION 9.10. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
          SECTION 9.11. . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibank's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
 
          (b) The obligation of any Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the "") to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, each Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to such Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
          SECTION 9.12. . (a) Each party hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against any other party hereto or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each Loan Party hereby agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in the any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon the Company and each other Loan Party hereby irrevocably appoints the Company its authorized agent to accept such service of process, and agrees that the failure of the Company to give any notice of any such service shall not impair or affect the validity of such service or of any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon. The Company and each other Loan Party hereby further irrevocably consent to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Company at its address specified pursuant to Section 9.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. To the extent that any Loan Party has or hereafter may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property, each Loan Party hereby irrevocably waives such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Agreement.
Jurisdiction, Etc
          (b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          SECTION 9.13. . The Borrowers assume all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Bank nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
 
should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the applicable Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to such Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by such Borrower that such Borrower proves were caused by such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary; that nothing herein shall be deemed to excuse such Issuing Bank if it acts with gross negligence or willful misconduct in accepting such documents.
provided
          SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. Each Borrower shall provide such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
          SECTION 9.15. . Each Subsidiary of the Company may from time to time authorize and appoint the Company as its attorney-in-fact to execute and deliver (a) any amendment, waiver or consent in accordance with Section 9.01 on behalf of and in the name of such Subsidiary and (b) any notice or other communication hereunder, on behalf of and in the name of such Subsidiary. Such authorization shall become effective as of the date on which such Subsidiary delivers to the Agent a power of attorney enforceable under applicable law and any additional information to the Agent as necessary to make such power of attorney the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Subsidiary.
Power of Attorney
          SECTION 9.16. . The Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrowers, their stockholders and/or their affiliates. Each Borrower agrees that nothing in the Agreement or the related documents or otherwise will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and the Borrowers, their stockholders or their affiliates, on the other. The Loan Parties acknowledge and agree that (i) the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and the related documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies hereunder and thereunder) are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrowers, on the other, and (ii) in connection therewith and with the process leading thereto, (x) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrowers, their stockholders or their affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise the Borrowers, their stockholders or their affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to the Borrowers except the obligations expressly set forth in the Agreement and the related Documents and (y) each Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of the Borrowers, their management, stockholders, creditors or any other Person. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that such Borrower has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment
No Fiduciary Duty
 
with respect to such transactions and the process leading thereto. Each Borrower agrees that it will not claim that any Lender has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to such Borrower, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
 
          SECTION 9.17. . Each of the Company, the other Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT COMMITMENTS
 
None.
 
EXHIBIT A  FORM OF PROMISSORY NOTE
U.S.$_______________
Dated: _______________, 201_
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, [NAME OF BORROWER], a __________ corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of May 26, 2011 among the Borrower, [Cooper Industries plc][Cooper US Inc.], the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on the Termination Date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
          The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
          Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds. Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
          This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
 
EXHIBIT B  FORM OF NOTICE OF BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent       for the Lenders parties       to the Credit Agreement       referred to below       1615 Brett Road, Building #3       New Castle, Delaware 19720
          Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned, [Name of Borrower], refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
     (i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 20_.
     (ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurodollar Rate Advances].
     (iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is $______________.
     [(iv) The initial Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is _____ month[s].]
          The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
     (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f) thereof (other than clause (ii) thereof)) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
 
     (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
 
CUSIP Number: EXHIBIT C  FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
                    
                    
          This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each] Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each] Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees] hereunder are several and not joint.] Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
11
Assignor
12
Assignee
13
14
Credit Agreement
          For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit included in such facilities), and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
1. Assignor[s]: ______________________
 
 
[7. Trade Date: ______________]
20
 
 
 
Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
[Consented to and] Accepted:
23
CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent
[Consented to:]
24
[NAME OF RELEVANT PARTY]
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assignor[s]
          1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 9.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 9.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee[s]
27
 
 
     2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
Payments
     3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT D-1  FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE LOAN PARTIES
To the Agent and each of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(iv) of the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2011 (the ""), among Cooper Industries plc, an Irish company (the ""), Cooper US Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto (together with the Company and Cooper US, the ""), the Lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lenders. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Credit Agreement
Company
Cooper US
Loan Parties
          We have acted as counsel for the Loan Parties in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement. In that capacity, we have examined the following (collectively, the ""):
Opinion Documents
     (1) the Credit Agreement; and
     (2) the Notes executed and delivered on the date hereof pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(i) of the Credit Agreement.
     We have also reviewed such other documents and given consideration to such matters of law and fact as we have deemed appropriate, in our professional judgment, to render the opinions expressed in this letter. For purposes of the opinions expressed herein, we have assumed (i) the genuineness of all signatures on all documents submitted to us as originals, (ii) the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, (iii) the absence of duress, fraud, or mutual mistake of material facts on the part of the parties to the Opinion Documents and (iv) the legal capacity and competency of natural Persons.
     We have further assumed that (i) each party to the Opinion Documents (other than the Loan Parties) has all requisite power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under the Opinion Documents to which it is a party, and has complied with all applicable laws and regulations to which it may be subject, (ii) the Opinion Documents have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each party thereto (other than the Loan Parties) and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of each party thereto (other than the Loan Parties) and (iii) to the extent applicable law requires that the Lenders act in accordance with applicable duties of good faith or fair dealing, in a commercially reasonable manner, or otherwise in compliance with applicable legal requirements in exercising their rights and
 
remedies under the Opinion Documents, the Agent and the Lenders will fully comply with such legal requirements, notwithstanding any provisions of the Opinion Documents that purport to grant the Agent or the Lenders, as applicable, the right to act or fail to act in a manner contrary to such legal requirements, or based on its or their sole judgment or in its or their sole discretion or provisions of similar import.
     We have further assumed, with your permission, the accuracy of each of the matters set forth below, and we have made no independent inquiry or investigation with respect thereto:
     (1) each Loan Party is a corporation or limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization;
     (2) each Loan Party has the organizational power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and to execute and deliver and to perform its obligations under the Opinion Documents;
     (3) each Loan Party has taken all necessary organizational action to authorize the execution and delivery of and the performance of its obligations under the Opinion Documents;
     (4) the execution and delivery by each Loan Party of the Opinion Documents to which it is a party and the performance by such Loan Party of its obligations thereunder (i) require no approval, authorization, consent, adjudication or order of any governmental authority of its jurisdiction of organization or any political subdivision thereof that has not been obtained, (ii) do not violate any provision of applicable law or regulation of its jurisdiction of organization, or of any judgment, injunction, order, or decree issued by any judicial or administrative authority that is binding on such Loan Party, and (iii) do not contravene or constitute a default under the organizational documents of such Loan Party; and
     (5) each Loan Party has duly executed and delivered each Opinion Document to which it is a party.
     The opinions expressed herein are limited to the law of the State of New York and applicable United States federal law that, in each case, is in our experience normally applicable to general business organizations not engaged in regulated business activities and to transactions of the type contemplated between the Loan Parties, on the one hand, and the other parties to the Opinion Documents, on the other hand, but without our having made any special investigation as to any other law.
     Finally, we express no opinion as to any matter arising under any federal or state securities laws or regulations, antitrust or trade regulation laws or regulations, environmental laws or regulations, tax laws or regulations, pension and employee benefit laws and regulations, laws or regulations relating to licenses, permits, approvals, or similar matters applicable to the businesses or activities of the Loan Parties, or any matters of local or municipal laws or regulations or the laws or regulations of any local agencies or political subdivisions within any state or any other laws or regulations that are applicable to the subject transactions or the parties thereto because of the nature or extent of their business.
     Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations, qualifications and exceptions stated herein, we are of the opinion that:
     1. The execution and delivery by each Loan Party of each Opinion Document to which it is a party and the performance by each Loan Party of its obligations thereunder (i) require no approval, authorization, consent, adjudication or order of any governmental authority of the State of New York or of the United States of America that has not been obtained and (ii) do not violate any law or regulation of
 
the State of New York or of the United States of America binding on the Loan Parties that in our experience is normally applicable to general business organizations in connection with transactions of the type contemplated by the Opinion Documents.
     2. Each Opinion Document constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party party thereto, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms.
     3. Assuming that the proceeds of the Advances are used solely for the purposes set forth in the Credit Agreement, none of the transactions contemplated by the Opinion Documents will violate Regulations T, U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
          The opinions expressed herein are subject in their entirety to the following limitations, qualifications and exceptions:
          (1) The opinions expressed herein do not purport to cover, and we express no opinion with respect to, the applicability of Section 548 of the federal Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provision of state law, including provisions relating to fraudulent conveyances.
          (2) The opinion expressed in paragraph 2 above is also qualified to the extent that the enforceability of the Opinion Documents may be limited by the effect of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting the rights and remedies of creditors (including, without limitation, matters of contract rejection, fraudulent conveyances and obligations, turn-over, preference, equitable subordination, automatic stay, and substantive consolidation under federal bankruptcy laws, as well as state laws regarding fraudulent transfers, obligations, and conveyances, and state receivership laws), or (ii) general principles of equity, whether applied by a court of law or equity (including, without limitation, principles governing the availability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other traditional equitable remedies, principles affording traditional equitable defenses such as waiver, laches and estoppel, and legal standards requiring reasonableness or materiality of breach for exercise of remedies or providing for defenses based on impracticability or impossibility of performance.
          (3) No opinion is expressed with respect to the validity, binding effect, or enforceability of those provisions (if any) of the Opinion Documents:
               (a) requiring indemnification for, or providing exculpation, release, or exemption from liability for, any action or inaction by any other person or entity, to the extent such action or inaction involves gross negligence, willful misconduct or unlawful conduct on the part of any such person or entity or to the extent arising under the securities laws or otherwise contrary to public policy;
               (b) providing that waivers or consents by a party or modifications to such documents may not be given effect unless in writing or in compliance with particular requirements or that the provisions of such documents are severable;
               (c) purporting to permit the exercise, under certain circumstances, of rights or remedies without notice or without providing opportunity to cure failures to perform;
               (d) requiring the payment of expenses or attorneys' fees, except to the extent that a court determines such fees to be reasonable; or
               (e) to the extent that such provisions constitute a waiver of illegality as a defense to performance of contract obligations.
 
          (4) In connection with the provisions of the Opinion Documents whereby any Loan Party submits to the jurisdiction of any federal court of competent jurisdiction, we note the limitations of 28 U.S.C.  1331 and 1332 on Federal court jurisdiction.
          (5) We express no opinion as to (i) Section 2.15 of the Credit Agreement insofar as it provides that any Lender purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation and (ii) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible.
     A copy of this opinion letter may be delivered by any of you to any Person that becomes a Lender in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. Any such Person may rely on the opinions expressed above as if this opinion letter were addressed and delivered to such Person on the date hereof.
     This opinion letter is furnished to you solely in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Opinion Documents and is solely for your benefit, and may not be relied upon by any other Person or for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
MEO: mg
 
EXHIBIT D-2  FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE LOAN PARTIES
 
EXHIBIT D-3  FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE LOAN PARTIES
To the Agent and each of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          I have acted as counsel to Cooper Industries plc, an Irish company (the ""), and Cooper US Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") in connection with a Credit Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2011 (the ""), among the Company, Cooper US, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto (together with Cooper US, collectively, the ""; and together with Cooper US and the Company, collectively, the ""), the Lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. This opinion is furnished to you as required by Section 3.01(d)(iv) of the Credit Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the Credit Agreement.
Company
Cooper US
Credit Agreement
Opinion Parties
Loan Parties
          I am a member of the State Bar of Texas. As Associate General Counsel of the Company and Cooper US, I am familiar with the corporate records and the affairs and operations of the Loan Parties. I have made such investigations and reviewed such documents and records as deemed appropriate for purposes of this opinion.
          Based on the foregoing and subject to other qualifications or limitations stated below, as of the date hereof, I am of the opinion that:
     1. Each Opinion Party is a corporation or limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization.
     2. The execution, delivery and performance by each Opinion Party of the Credit Agreement and, in the case of Cooper US, the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within such Opinion Party's corporate or limited liability company powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or limited liability company action, and do not contravene the organizational documents of such Opinion Party. The Credit Agreement and, in the case of Cooper US, the Notes executed and delivered on the date hereof pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(i) of the Credit Agreement, have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of each Opinion Party that is stated to be a party thereto.
     3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by any Opinion Party of the Credit Agreement or, in the
 
case of Cooper US, the Notes executed and delivered on the date hereof pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(i) of the Credit Agreement.
     4. To the best of my knowledge, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or any of the Notes delivered on the date hereof pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(i) of the Credit Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or that are likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
     5. The making and performance by each Loan Party of the Credit Agreement will result in no default under any agreement of which I have knowledge affecting or purporting to affect such Loan Party's right to borrow money or guaranty obligations or such Loan Party's obligations under the Credit Agreement (other than agreements for goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business which are not material in amount).
     The foregoing opinions are limited in all respects to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, the New York Business Corporation Law, the laws of the State of Texas and the federal laws of the United States, and I assume no responsibility as to the applicability thereto, or the effect thereon, of the laws of any other jurisdiction, including, without limitation, the laws of any jurisdiction in which you are located.
     The opinion expressed in paragraph 1 above with respect to the valid existence and good standing of the Opinion Parties is based solely upon the following: (i) the certificate, dated May 19, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of New York as to the existence and good standing in the State of New York of Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.; (ii) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper US; (iii) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper B-Line, Inc.; (iv) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper Bussman, LLC; (v) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC; (vi) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper Lighting, LLC; and (vii) the certificate, dated May 20, 2011, from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as to the existence and good standing in the State of Delaware of Cooper Power Systems, LLC.
     A copy of this opinion letter may be delivered by any of you to any person that becomes a Lender in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. Any such person may rely on the opinions expressed above as if this opinion letter were addressed and delivered to such person on the date hereof.
     The opinions expressed and the statements herein made are solely for your benefit as parties to the Credit Agreement and may not be relied upon by any other person or furnished to anyone else without my prior written permission.
Very truly yours,


