FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20110506161747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 2, 2011, Mr. Robert M. Devlin retired from Cooper's Board of Directors in accordance with the Company's director tenure policy, which requires any non-employee director to retire effective as of the Board meeting immediately following his or her 70th birthday.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 2, 2011. Eight proposals, as described in Cooper's Proxy Statement dated March 21, 2011, were voted upon at the meeting. The following is a brief description of the matters voted upon and the final voting results. Abstentions and broker nonvotes are not considered votes cast at the Annual Meeting. Because approval of all the proposals is based on the votes properly cast at the Annual Meeting, abstentions and broker nonvotes do not have any effect on the outcome of the voting.
1. Proposal for the election of three directors:
2. Proposal to consider the Company's Irish Statutory Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the related reports of the directors and auditors:
       
 
3. Proposal to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors for the year ending December 31, 2011 and authorize the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors to set their remuneration:
4. Proposal to consider the 2011 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan:
5. Proposal to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation of Named Officers:
6. Proposal to hold an advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation:
7. Proposal to authorize any subsidiary of the Company to make market purchases of Company shares:
8. Proposal to authorize the reissue price range of treasury shares:
 
 
Annual Shareholder Vote on Executive Compensation
The shareholder vote on the frequency of the vote on executive compensation is an advisory vote only. Although the vote is non-binding, the Board of Directors values the opinions of our shareholders. In light of the voting results on this proposal as set forth in item 6 above, the Board has determined that the Company will hold an annual vote on the compensation of executives named in its proxy materials until the next shareholder vote on the frequency of votes on executive compensation.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


