FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20110902100209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Section 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On September 8, 2009, Cooper Industries plc ("Cooper") and Cooper Industries, Ltd. entered into a Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A. as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"). The terms of the Rights Agreement are described in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Cooper on September 9, 2009. Under the Rights Agreement, Rights Certificates may be distributed to shareholders if an "Acquiring Person" as defined in the Rights Agreement becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of Cooper's ordinary shares then outstanding.
On September 2, 2011, Cooper and the Rights Agent entered into an amendment to the Rights Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1. The amendment allows certain institutional investors who are eligible to report the beneficial ownership of Cooper's ordinary shares on Schedule 13G to acquire up to 18% of Cooper's ordinary shares then outstanding without triggering the distribution of Rights Certificates.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 4.1
AMENDMENT TO SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this "Amendment"), executed as a Deed Poll, dated as of September 2, 2011, to the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2009 (the "Rights Agreement"), by and among Cooper Industries plc, a company incorporated in Ireland under registered number 471954 (the "Company"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Cooper Bermuda"), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"). Terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Company, Cooper Bermuda and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed and entered into the Rights Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may supplement or amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with the provisions of such Section 27; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to amend the Rights Agreement to provide that any "Person" that is a "Qualified Institutional Investor" (as defined herein) will not be deemed an "Acquiring Person."
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the Company and the Rights Agent hereby amend the Rights Agreement as follows:
1. Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to include the following new definition in the appropriate alphabetical position, with the subsequent definitions being appropriately re-lettered and cross-references thereto being appropriately revised:
(k) "Qualified Institutional Investor" shall mean, as of any time of determination, a Person that is described in Rule 13d-1(b)(1) promulgated under the Exchange Act (as such Rule is in effect on the date hereof) and is eligible to report (and, if such Person is the Beneficial Owner of greater than 5% of the Ordinary Shares of the Company, does in fact report) beneficial ownership of Ordinary Shares of the Company on Schedule 13G, and such Person (i) is not required to file a Schedule 13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial ownership of Ordinary Shares of the Company, (ii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 15% of the Ordinary Shares of the Company then outstanding (including in such calculation the holdings of all of such Person's Affiliates and Associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the SEC or its Staff, are eligible to file separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of the Ordinary Shares of the Company) and (iii) shall be the Beneficial Owner of less than 18% of the Ordinary Shares of the Company then outstanding.
2. Section 1(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby modified, amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
(a) "Acquiring Person" shall mean any Person who or which, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares then outstanding, but shall not include (i) the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan, (ii) any Person who becomes an Acquiring Person solely as a result of a reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares outstanding due to the repurchase of Ordinary Shares by the Company, unless and until such Person shall purchase or otherwise become the Beneficial Owner of additional Ordinary Shares constituting 1% or more of the then outstanding Ordinary Shares or (iii) a Qualified Institutional Investor.
3. Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement, being the form of Rights Certificate, is hereby modified and amended by inserting in the first paragraph following the words "dated as of September 8, 2009" the words ", as amended as of September 2, 2011".
4. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of Ireland and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland; provided, however, that all provisions regarding the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such Commonwealth.
5. Except as specifically amended by this Agreement, all other terms and conditions of the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
6. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. A signature to this Amendment transmitted electronically shall have the same authority, effect and enforceability as an original signature.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deed Poll has been executed and delivered as a Deed on the day and year first before written.
Given under the Common Seal of COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC By
Director
/s/ Kirk S. Hachigian
Secretary
/s/ Terrance V. Helz
Signed by a duly authorized representative of COMPUTERSHARE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
Manager, Contract Administration
/s/ Dennis V. Moccia


