FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20120912165454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
  
 ______________________________
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
x
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
 
 
Item 8.01.       Other Events.
 
            On September 12, 2012, Eaton Corporation (Eaton) and Cooper Industries plc (Cooper) issued a joint press release announcing the record dates and meeting dates for their respective shareholder meetings in connection with the proposed acquisition of Cooper by Eaton pursuant to the Transaction Agreement (the Transaction Agreement), dated as of May 21, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2012, by and among Eaton, Cooper, Eaton Corporation Limited (formerly known as Abeiron Limited), Abeiron II Limited (formerly known as Comdell Limited), Turlock B.V., Eaton Inc. and Turlock Corporation.  The special meeting of Eaton is being held to seek shareholder approval of the Transaction Agreement and related matters.  There will be two meetings of the Cooper shareholders in connection with the transaction, the first of which is convened by order of the Irish High Court, and the second of which is an extraordinary general meeting held pursuant to Cooper's articles of association. Both meetings are being held to seek shareholder approval of the scheme of arrangement in accordance with Irish law, and the approval of related matters by the Cooper shareholders will also be sought at the extraordinary general meeting.
 
Each of Eatons and Coopers shareholders of record at the close of business on Thursday, September 13, 2012, will be entitled to vote at their respective shareholder meetings. Each shareholder meeting is scheduled to be held on Friday, October 26, 2012. The Eaton shareholder meeting will be held at Eaton Center, located at 1111 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114.  The Cooper shareholder meetings will be held at 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas 77002.  Eaton and Cooper will begin mailing a joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders in the coming days.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
            (d) Exhibits
 
No Offer or Solicitation
 
This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the acquisition or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Important Information Has Been And Will Be Filed With The SEC
 
A registration statement on Form S-4 has been filed with the SEC, which includes the Joint Proxy Statement of Eaton and Cooper that also constitutes a Prospectus of Eaton Corporation plc. 
1 
The registration statement was
declared effective on September 7, 2012.  Eaton and Cooper plan to mail to their respective shareholders (and to Cooper Equity Award Holders for information only) the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) in connection with the transaction.
Investors and shareholders are urged to read the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other relevant documents filed or to be filed with the SEC carefully because they contain or will contain important information about Eaton, Cooper, Eaton Corporation plc, the transaction and related matters.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed with the SEC by Eaton Corporation plc, Eaton and Cooper through the website maintained by the SEC at
www.sec.gov
. In addition, investors and shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Eaton and Eaton Corporation plc with the SEC by contacting Eaton Investor Relations at Eaton Corporation, 1111 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44114 or by calling (888) 328-6647, and will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Cooper by contacting Cooper Investor Relations at c/o Cooper US, Inc., P.O. Box 4446, Houston, Texas 77210 or by calling (713) 209-8400.
 
 
 
 
(1)
Currently named Eaton Corporation Limited but expected to be re-registered as Eaton Corporation plc prior to the consummation of the transaction.
 
Participants in the Solicitation
 
Cooper, Eaton and Eaton Corporation plc and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the respective shareholders of Cooper and Eaton in respect of the transaction contemplated by the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective shareholders of Cooper and Eaton in connection with the proposed transaction, including a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. Information regarding Coopers directors and executive officers is contained in Coopers Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 13, 2012, which are filed with the SEC. Information regarding Eatons directors and executive officers is contained in Eatons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 16, 2012, which are filed with the SEC.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This communication may contain forward-looking statements concerning the Transaction, our long-term credit rating and our revenues and operating earnings. These statements or disclosures may discuss goals, intentions and expectations as to future trends, plans, events, results of operations or financial condition, or state other information relating to Cooper, based on current beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Forward-looking statements generally will be accompanied by words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, guidance, intend, may, possible, potential, predict, project or other similar words, phrases or expressions. These statements should be used with caution. They are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include adverse regulatory decisions; failure to satisfy other closing conditions with respect to the Transaction; the risks that the new businesses will not be integrated successfully or that we will not realize estimated cost savings and synergies; unanticipated changes in the markets for our business segments; unanticipated downturns in business relationships with customers or their purchases from Cooper; competitive pressures on our sales and pricing; increases in the cost of material, energy and other production costs, or unexpected costs that cannot be recouped in product pricing; the introduction of competing technologies; unexpected technical or marketing difficulties; unexpected claims, charges, litigation or dispute resolutions; new laws and governmental regulations, including changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Statement Required By The Takeover Rules
 
The directors of Cooper accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Cooper (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case),
the information contained in this communication is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
 
 
 
 
Persons interested in 1% or more of any relevant securities in Eaton or Cooper may from the date of this communication have disclosure obligations under Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Takeover Rules 2007 (as amended).
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated:   September 12, 2012
                          
COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC 
 
 
By: 
  /s/  
Terrance V. Helz
                                   
Name:   Terrance V. Helz     
Title:  Associate General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 

         
 
 
 
Eaton and Cooper Shareholder Meetings Scheduled for October 26, 2012
 
 
CLEVELAND, OHIO and DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Eaton Corporation (NYSE: ETN) and Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) have scheduled shareholder meetings for Friday, October 26, 2012 in connection with the proposed acquisition of Cooper by Eaton.
 
As previously announced, on May 21, 2012, Eaton and Cooper entered into a transaction agreement pursuant to which Eaton will acquire Cooper through the formation of a new holding company incorporated in Ireland that will be renamed Eaton Corporation plc, which is referred to below as Eaton plc.  The acquisition will be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Irish law, subject to the approval of the Irish High Court.  As consideration for the acquisition, Cooper shareholders will receive $39.15 in cash and 0.77479 of an Eaton plc ordinary share for each Cooper share.
In connection with the acquisition, Eaton will merge with Turlock Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Eaton plc.  Each Eaton common share then issued and outstanding will be cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive one ordinary share of Eaton plc.  After the acquisition and the merger, Eaton shareholders are expected to own approximately 73
 percent 
of Eaton plcs ordinary shares and Cooper shareholders are expected to own approximately 27
 percent 
of Eaton plcs ordinary shares.  The Eaton plc ordinary shares are expected to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ETN.  The boards of directors for both companies have unanimously recommended approval of the merger to their shareholders.  The transaction remains subject to customary closing conditions, including the requisite approvals of each companys shareholders.
1
 
 
Eatons special meeting of shareholders will be held on Friday, October 26, 2012, at 3 p.m.
Eastern 
time, at Eaton Center, located at 1111 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.  This meeting is being held to seek shareholder approval of the transaction agreement and the merger and related matters.
There will be two meetings of the Cooper shareholders on October 26, 2012 in connection with the transaction.  Both meetings will be held at the Chase Tower located at 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas.  The first  meeting, which is convened by order of the Irish High Court,  will be held at 11:00 a.m.
Central 
time.  Following this meeting, an extraordinary general meeting of Cooper shareholders will be held pursuant to Coopers articles at
11:10 a.m. Central
time (or, if later, as soon possible after the conclusion or adjournment of the first meeting).  Both meetings are being held to seek shareholder approval of the scheme of arrangement in accordance with Irish law, and the approval of related matters by the Cooper shareholders will also be sought at the extraordinary general meeting.
Each companys shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 13, 2012 are entitled to vote at their respective meetings.
Eaton and Cooper will begin mailing a joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders in the coming days.  This joint proxy statement/prospectus provides information for shareholders of both companies, as well as instructions on voting online, by mail, by telephone or in person.
About Eaton
Eaton is a diversified power management company with more than 100 years of experience providing energy-efficient solutions that help our customers effectively manage electrical, hydraulic and mechanical power.  With 2011 revenues of $16.0 billion, Eaton is a global technology leader in electrical components, systems and services for power quality, distribution and control; hydraulics components, systems and services for industrial and mobile equipment; aerospace fuel, hydraulics and pneumatic systems for commercial and military use; and truck and automotive drivetrain and powertrain systems for performance, fuel economy and safety.  Eaton has approximately 73,000 employees and sells products to customers in more than 150 countries.
 
2
 
 
About Cooper
Cooper is a diversified global manufacturer of electrical components and tools, with 2011 revenues of $5.4 billion.  Founded in 1833, Coopers sustained success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation and evolving business practices, while maintaining the highest ethical standards and meeting customer needs.  Cooper has seven operating divisions with leading positions and world-class products and brands including Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products.  With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long term growth trends including the global infrastructure build out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety.  In 2011, 62 percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and 40 percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States.  Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2011.
 
No Offer or Solicitation
This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the acquisition or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law.  No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Important Additional Information Has Been and Will be Filed with the SEC
A registration statement on Form S-4 has been filed with the SEC, which includes the joint proxy statement of Eaton and Cooper that also constitutes a prospectus of Eaton Corporation plc.  The registration statement was declared effective on September 7, 2012.  Eaton and Cooper plan to mail to their respective shareholders (and to Cooper equity award holders for information only) the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus (including the Scheme) in connection with the transaction.  
(1)
Investors and shareholders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus (including the Scheme) and other relevant documents filed or to be filed with the SEC carefully because they contain or will contain important information about Eaton, Cooper, Eaton Corporation plc, the transaction and related matters.
 Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive joint proxy
statement/prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed with the SEC by Eaton Corporation plc, Eaton and Cooper through the website maintained by the SEC at
www.sec.gov
.
 
3
 
 
In addition, investors and shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Eaton and Eaton Corporation plc with the SEC by contacting Eaton Investor Relations at Eaton Corporation, 1111 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114 or by calling (888) 328-6647, and will be able to obtain free copies of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Cooper by contacting Cooper Investor Relations at c/o Cooper US, Inc., P.O. Box 4446, Houston, Texas 77210 or by calling (713) 209-8400.
 
(1)
Currently named Eaton Corporation Limited but expected to be re-registered as Eaton Corporation plc prior to the consummation of the transaction.
 
Participants in the Solicitation
Cooper, Eaton and Eaton Corporation plc and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the respective shareholders of Cooper and Eaton in respect of the transaction contemplated by the joint proxy statement/prospectus.  Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective shareholders of Cooper and Eaton in connection with the proposed transaction, including a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.  Information regarding Coopers directors and executive officers is contained in Coopers Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 13, 2012, which are filed with the SEC.  Information regarding Eatons directors and executive officers is contained in Eatons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 16, 2012, which are filed with the SEC.
 
Statement Required by the Takeover Rules
The directors of Cooper accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication relating to Cooper and its
associates
and the directors of Cooper and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them.  To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Cooper (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained in this communication for which they accept responsibility is in
accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
4
 
 
 
The directors of Eaton accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication, other than that relating to Cooper, its
associates
and the directors of Cooper and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them.  To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Eaton (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained in this communication for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
 
Persons interested in 1 percent or more of any relevant securities in Eaton or Cooper may from the date of this communication have disclosure obligations under rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Takeover Rules 2007 (as amended).
 
                                                                        ###
 
5


