FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20120427165741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on April 23, 2012. Six proposals, as described in Cooper's Proxy Statement dated March 13, 2012, were voted upon at the meeting. The following is a brief description of the matters voted upon and the final voting results. Abstentions and broker nonvotes are not considered votes cast at the Annual Meeting. Because approval of all the proposals is based on the votes properly cast at the Annual Meeting, abstentions and broker nonvotes do not have any effect on the outcome of the voting.
1. Proposal for the election of three directors:
2. Proposal to consider the company's Irish Statutory Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the related reports of the directors and auditors:
3. Proposal to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors for the year ending December 31, 2012 and authorize the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors to set their remuneration:
4. Advisory approval of the company's executive compensation:
5. Proposal to authorize any subsidiary of the company to make market purchases of company shares:
6. Proposal to authorize the reissue price range of treasury shares:
 
 Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Company Statement Regarding Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Cooper, its Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee acknowledge that a majority of Cooper's shareholders have voted on an advisory basis against approval of executive compensation.  Cooper is determined to create lasting value for its shareholders and has engaged with many shareholders to ensure alignment of executive compensation with performance over the long term. 
Cooper will continue to modify its compensation package based on valued input from our shareholders.
The following are some of the steps taken and relevant data points relating to Cooper's executive compensation program:
In summary, Cooper will continue to monitor and make adjustments to the programs to continue to align executive compensation with shareholders' interests.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


