FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20121019165253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced, on May 21, 2012, Cooper Industries plc, a company incorporated in Ireland ("Cooper"), entered into a Transaction Agreement with Eaton Corporation, an Ohio corporation ("Eaton"), Eaton Corporation Limited (formerly known as Abeiron Limited), a company incorporated in Ireland ("New Eaton"), Abeiron II Limited (formerly known as Comdell Limited), a company incorporated in Ireland ("Abeiron II"), Turlock B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands ("Turlock"), and Turlock Corporation, an Ohio corporation ("Merger Sub" and together with Cooper, Eaton, New Eaton, Abeiron II and Turlock, the "Original Parties"), which was amended on June 22, 2012 by Amendment No. 1 to the Transaction Agreement entered into by the Original Parties and Eaton Inc., an Ohio corporation ("Eaton Sub") (as amended, the "Transaction Agreement'). Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, New Eaton will acquire Cooper through a "scheme of arrangement" under the Irish Companies Act of 1963 (the "acquisition") and Eaton through a merger of Merger Sub, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of New Eaton, with and into Eaton (the "merger," and collectively with the acquisition, the "transaction").
On October 19, 2012, Eaton, Cooper, New Eaton, Abeiron II, Turlock, Eaton Sub and Merger Sub entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Transaction Agreement (the "Amendment") in order to provide more clarity on specific steps to be taken in connection with the transaction. The Amendment includes the following technical changes: (i) providing that, pursuant to Irish law, Eaton shareholders will not receive any fractions of New Eaton ordinary shares as consideration in the merger and instead the total number of New Eaton ordinary shares that any Eaton shareholder would have been entitled to receive will be rounded down to the nearest whole number and all entitlements to fractional New Eaton ordinary shares will be aggregated and sold by the exchange agent, with any sale proceeds being distributed in cash pro rata to the Eaton shareholders whose fractional entitlements have been sold, (ii) reflecting an adjustment in the legal structure, providing that Merger Sub will be jointly owned by Turlock and Eaton Sub, (iii) providing that Eaton and New Eaton will guarantee Cooper's obligations under the management continuity agreements after completion of the transaction and (iv) correcting a drafting error in a provision relating to the treatment of entitlements to fractional New Eaton ordinary shares in respect of Cooper options and share awards. The Amendment is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of New Eaton as they will be in effect after the closing (the "New Eaton M&A"), which are included in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus as Annex D, have been updated to reflect the matters described in items (ii) and (iii) in the paragraph above along with other technical changes, including to change the dividend rate with respect to A preferred shares. The Amendment to the New Eaton M&A is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
No Offer or Solicitation
This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the acquisition or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Important Information Has Been And Will Be Filed With The SEC
A registration statement on Form S-4 has been filed with the SEC, which includes the Joint Proxy Statement of Eaton and Cooper that also constitutes a Prospectus of Eaton Corporation plc
(
1
)
. The registration statement was declared effective on September 7, 2012. Eaton and Cooper have sent to their respective shareholders (and to Cooper equity award holders for information only) the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) in connection with the transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed with the SEC by Eaton Corporation plc, Eaton and Cooper through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and shareholders may obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Eaton and Eaton Corporation plc with the SEC by contacting Eaton Investor Relations at Eaton Corporation, 1111 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114 or by calling (888) 328-6647, and may obtain free copies of the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Cooper by contacting Cooper Investor Relations at c/o Cooper US, Inc., P.O. Box 4466, Houston, Texas 77210 or by calling (713) 209-8400.
Investors and shareholders are urged to read the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (including the Scheme) and other relevant documents filed or to be filed with the SEC carefully because they contain or will contain important information about Eaton, Cooper, Eaton Corporation plc, the transaction and related matters.
Forward-Looking Statements
This communication may contain forward-looking statements concerning the Transaction, our long-term credit rating and our revenues and operating earnings. These statements or disclosures may discuss goals, intentions and expectations as to future trends, plans, events, results of operations or financial condition, or state other information relating to Cooper, based on current beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Forward-looking statements generally will be accompanied by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "guidance," "intend," "may," "possible," "potential," "predict," "project" or other similar words, phrases or expressions. These statements should be used with caution. They are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include adverse regulatory decisions; failure to satisfy other closing conditions with respect to the Transaction; the risks that the new businesses will not be integrated successfully or that we will not realize estimated cost savings and synergies; unanticipated changes in the markets for our business segments; unanticipated downturns in business relationships with customers or their purchases from Cooper; competitive pressures on our sales and pricing; increases in the cost of material, energy and other production costs, or unexpected costs that cannot be recouped in product pricing; the introduction of competing technologies; unexpected technical or marketing difficulties; unexpected claims, charges, litigation or dispute resolutions; new laws and governmental regulations, including changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Statement Required By The Takeover Rules
The directors of Cooper accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Cooper (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this communication is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
 
Persons interested in 1% or more of any relevant securities in Eaton or Cooper may from the date of this communication have disclosure obligations under Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Takeover Rules 2007 (as amended).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 19, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2012 (this ""), is entered into by and among Cooper Industries plc, a company incorporated in Ireland (""), Eaton Corporation, an Ohio corporation (""), Eaton Corporation Limited (formerly known as Abeiron Limited), a company incorporated in Ireland (""), Abeiron II Limited (formerly known as Comdell Limited), a company incorporated in Ireland (""), Turlock B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands (""), Eaton Inc., an Ohio corporation (""), and Turlock Corporation, an Ohio corporation ("", and together with Cooper, Eaton, Holdco, IrSub and EHC, the "", and together with U.S. Holdco, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Transaction Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2012, by and among the Original Parties, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2012, by and among the Parties (the "").
Amendment
Cooper
Eaton
Holdco
IrSub
EHC
U.S. Holdco
MergerSub
Original Parties
Parties
Transaction Agreement
WHEREAS, each of the Parties desires to amend and supplement the Transaction Agreement in certain respects as described in this Amendment.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. . Clause 4.9 of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment of Clause 4.9
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Clause 4, no Fractional Entitlements shall be issued by Holdco under Clause 4.1 or Clause 4.3, and all Fractional Entitlements in respect of Cooper Options or Cooper Share Awards shall be aggregated and sold in the market by the Exchange Agent with the net proceeds of any such sale distributed pro-rata to the holders of such Cooper Options or Cooper Share Awards in accordance with the Fractional Entitlements to which they would otherwise have been entitled.
2. . Clause 6.2(a)(ii)(B) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment of Clause 6.2
(B) As of May 21, 2012, the authorised share capital of Holdco consists of 750,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.01 per share, and 40,000 deferred ordinary shares, par value 1.00 per share, of which 100 ordinary shares, par value $0.01 per share, are currently issued. All of the issued shares in Holdco have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and, except as contemplated by Exhibit 8.1(b)(ii), are owned directly by Matsack Nominees Limited (95 shares) and Matsack Trust Limited, Matsack UK Limited, Matsack Nominees UK Limited, George Brady and Pat English (1 share each), free and clear of any Lien. As of the date of the sanction by the High Court of the Scheme, the authorised share capital of Holdco will consist of (i) 750,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.01 per share, (ii) 40,000 deferred ordinary shares, par value
1.00 per share, (iii) 10,000,000 serial preferred shares, par value $0.01 per share, and (iv) 10,000 A preferred shares, par value $1.00 per share. The authorised share capital of IrSub consists of 100,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.01 per share, of which 100 ordinary shares are currently issued. All of the issued shares in IrSub have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned directly by Holdco free and clear of any Lien. The authorised share capital of EHC consists of 900 ordinary shares, par value 100.00 per share, of which 180 ordinary shares are currently issued. All of the issued shares in EHC have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned directly by IrSub free and clear of any Lien. The authorised capital stock of U.S. Holdco consists of 10,000 common shares, with no par value, of which 1,000 common shares are currently issued. All of the issued shares in U.S. Holdco have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned directly by EHC free and clear of any Lien. The authorised capital stock of MergerSub consists of 10,000 common shares, with no par value, of which 1,900 shares are currently issued. Each of the issued shares in MergerSub has been validly issued, is fully paid and nonassessable and is owned directly by EHC or U.S. Holdco free and clear of any Lien. All of the Share Consideration, when issued pursuant to the Acquisition and the Merger and this Agreement and delivered pursuant hereto will, at such time, be duly authorised, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of all Liens and pre-emptive rights.
3. . Clause 7.4(f) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment of Clause 7.4(f)
(f) As of the Effective Time, HoldCo and Eaton each hereby expressly guarantees the obligations of Cooper and Cooper US, Inc. under the MCAs set forth in Section 6.1(i)(v)(B) of the Cooper Disclosure Schedule; , , that the foregoing shall not relieve Cooper or Cooper US, Inc. of their obligations under each such MCA.
provided
however
4. . Exhibit 8.1(b)(ii) to the Transaction Agreement hereby is replaced in its entirety with attached hereto.
Amendment of Exhibit 8.1(b)(ii)
Annex 1
5. . Clause 8.1(c)(i)(B) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment of Clause 8.1(c)(i)(B)
(B) issue 0.77479 (the "") of a Holdco Share ("the "" and, together with the Cash Consideration and any cash in lieu of Fractional Entitlements due to a Cooper Shareholder, the "") to the applicable Cooper Shareholder (and/or their nominees), which Share Consideration shall be duly authorised, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of Liens and pre-emptive rights; , , that no fractions of Holdco Shares (the "") shall be issued by Holdco to the Cooper Shareholders under this Clause 8.1(c)(i)(B), and all Fractional Entitlements that would otherwise have been due to any Cooper Shareholders shall be aggregated and sold in the market by the Exchange Agent with the net proceeds of any such sale distributed pro-rata to such Cooper Shareholders in accordance with the Fractional Entitlements to which they would otherwise have been entitled;
Exchange Ratio
Share Consideration
Scheme Consideration
provided
however
Fractional Entitlements
 
6. .
Amendment of Clause 8.2
(a) The last sentence of Clause 8.2(a) is hereby amended, supplemented and restated to read as follows:
As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of the Surviving Corporation shall be owned by either EHC or U.S. Holdco and the Surviving Corporation shall become an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco.
(b) Clause 8.2(f)(i) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
(i) . Each Eaton Share issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, and all rights in respect thereof, shall be cancelled and automatically converted into and become the right to receive one Holdco Share from either EHC or U.S. Holdco and any cash in lieu of Fractional Entitlements due to an Eaton Shareholder (the ""); , , that no Fractional Entitlements shall be due from EHC or U.S. Holdco to any Eaton Shareholders under this Clause 8.2(f)(i), and all Fractional Entitlements that would otherwise have been due to any Eaton Shareholders shall be aggregated and sold in the market by the Exchange Agent with the net proceeds of any such sale distributed pro-rata to such Eaton Shareholders in accordance with the Fractional Entitlements to which they would otherwise have been entitled. As a result of the Merger, at the Merger Effective Time, each holder of record of a certificate or certificates which immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time represented outstanding Eaton Shares (the "") and each holder of record of a non-certificated outstanding Eaton Share represented by book entry ("") shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the consideration payable in respect of the Eaton Shares represented by such Eaton Certificate or Eaton Book Entry Share (as applicable) immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time to be delivered in accordance with Clause 8.2(g).
Conversion of Eaton Common Stock
Merger Consideration
provided
however
Eaton Certificates
Eaton Book Entry Shares
(c) Clause 8.2(f)(ii) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
(ii) . At the Merger Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the Parties or any of their respective shareholders, each share of common stock of MergerSub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, and all rights in respect thereof, shall forthwith be cancelled and cease to exist and be converted into one hundred (100) fully paid and nonassessable shares of common stock of the Surviving Corporation, which shall constitute the only outstanding shares of capital stock of the Surviving Corporation and all of which shall be held by EHC or U.S. Holdco.
MergerSub Capital Stock
 
(d) The first sentence of Clause 8.2(g)(i) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended and revised by replacing the defined term "U.S. Holdco" with the phrase "EHC and U.S. Holdco."
(e) Clause 8.2(g)(ii) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
(ii) . As soon as reasonably practicable after the Merger Effective Time, and in any event within four (4) Business Days after the Merger Effective Time, Holdco shall cause the Exchange Agent to mail to each holder of record of an Eaton Certificate and to each holder of record of an Eaton Book Entry Share, which at the Merger Effective Time were converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration pursuant to Clause 8.2(f)(i), (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and that risk of loss and title to the Eaton Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Eaton Certificates to the Exchange Agent or, in the case of Eaton Book Entry Shares, upon adherence to the procedures set forth in the letter of transmittal), and (ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Eaton Certificates and Eaton Book Entry Shares, as applicable, in exchange for payment of the Merger Consideration therefor. Upon surrender of Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) for cancellation to the Exchange Agent, together with such letter of transmittal, duly completed and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor: (a) that number of Holdco Shares into which such holder's Eaton Shares represented by such holder's properly surrendered Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) were converted pursuant to Clause 8.2(f)(i), and the Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled, and (b) a check in an amount of U.S. dollars (after giving effect to any required withholdings pursuant to Clause 8.2(g)(ix)) equal to any cash dividends or other distributions that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Clause 8.2(g)(iv) and the amount of any cash payable in lieu of any Fractional Entitlements that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Clause 8.2(f)(i). No interest shall be paid or shall accrue for the benefit of holders of the Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares on the Merger Consideration payable in respect of the Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares.
Exchange Procedures
 
(f) Clause 8.2(g)(iv) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended, supplemented and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
(iv) . No dividends or other distributions with respect to Holdco Shares with a record date after the Merger Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Eaton Certificate or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) with respect to the Eaton Shares represented thereby until such Eaton Certificate or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) has been surrendered in accordance with this Clause 8.2. Subject to applicable Law and the provisions of this Clause 8.2, following surrender of any such Eaton Certificate or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable), there shall be paid to the record holder thereof by the Exchange Agent, without interest promptly after such surrender, (a) the number of Holdco Shares to which such record holder was entitled pursuant to this Clause 8.2 and the amount of any cash payable in lieu of any Fractional Entitlements that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Clause 8.2(f)(i), (b) at the time of surrender, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date on or after the date of the Merger Effective Time and a payment date on or prior to the date of this surrender and not previously paid and (c) at the appropriate payment date, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to those Holdco Shares with a record date on or after the date of the Merger Effective Time but on or prior to the date of this surrender and with a payment date subsequent to surrender.
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares
(g) Clause 8.2(g)(viii) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended and revised by replacing the defined term "U.S. Holdco" wherever such defined term appears with the phrase "EHC, U.S. Holdco."
7.
Representations and Warranties.
(a) Cooper represents and warrants to Eaton as follows: Cooper has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Amendment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Amendment and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorised by the Cooper Board and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Cooper are necessary to authorise the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. This Amendment has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Cooper and, assuming this Amendment constitutes the valid and binding agreement of the Eaton Parties, constitutes the valid and binding agreement of Cooper, enforceable against Cooper in accordance with its terms. The execution and delivery by Cooper of this Amendment do not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance with the provisions hereof will not conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the Organisational Documents of Cooper or any of Cooper's Significant Subsidiaries.
 
(b) Eaton and Holdco jointly and severally represent and warrant to Cooper as follows: Eaton and each Eaton Merger Party has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Amendment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Amendment and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorised by the Eaton Board and the board of directors of each Eaton Merger Party and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Eaton or any Eaton Merger Party are necessary to authorise the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. This Amendment has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Eaton and each Eaton Merger Party and, assuming this Amendment constitutes the valid and binding agreement of Cooper, constitutes the valid and binding agreement of Eaton and each Eaton Merger Party, enforceable against Eaton and each Eaton Merger Party in accordance with its terms. The execution and delivery by Eaton and each Eaton Merger Party of this Amendment do not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance with the provisions hereof will not conflict with or result in any violation of any provision of the Organisational Documents of Eaton or any of Eaton's Significant Subsidiaries or the Eaton Merger Parties.
8. . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of Ireland; , , that the Merger and matters related thereto shall, to the extent required by the Laws of the State of Ohio, be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law
provided
however
9. . This Amendment may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in two or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Amendment. Signatures of the Parties transmitted by facsimile shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Counterparts
10. . Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not modify or in any way affect any of the provisions of the Transaction Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. From and after the date hereof, all references to the term "Agreement" in the Transaction Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Transaction Agreement, as amended hereby.
Effect on the Transaction Agreement
 
IN WITNESS whereof the Parties have entered into this Amendment on the date specified above.
 
IN WITNESS whereof the Parties have entered into this Amendment on the date specified above.
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS whereof the Parties have entered into this Amendment on the date specified above.
 
 
IN WITNESS whereof the Parties have entered into this Amendment on the date specified above.
 
 
IN WITNESS whereof the Parties have entered into this Amendment on the date specified above.
 
 
 
All defined terms used herein shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Agreement.
The steps:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
"" means a private limited liability company incorporated in Ireland under registration number 513275.
Abeiron II
 
means Turlock B.V., a private limited liability company incorporated in the Netherlands, registered with the trader register of the Dutch Chamber of Commerce under file number 08169375, which is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Abeiron II.
"EHC"
 
"" means deferred ordinary shares of nominal value 1.00 per share (or such other nominal value as may result from any reorganisation of capital) in the capital of the Company, having the rights and being subject to the limitations set out in these articles.
Euro Deferred Shares
 
"" means Turlock Corporation, a company incorporated in Ohio.
MergerSub
 
"" means Eaton Inc., a company incorporated in Ohio, which is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EHC.
US Holdco
 
Serial Preferred Shares:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the holder of the A Preferred Shares shall be entitled in priority to any payment of dividend on any other class of shares in the Company to be paid a dividend in an amount per A Preferred Share equal to twice the dividend to be paid per Ordinary Share.
 
 
 
 
Upon surrender of Eaton Certificates and/or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) for cancellation to the Exchange Agent, together with such letter of transmittal, duly completed and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefore (i) that number of Company Shares into which such holder's Eaton Corporation shares represented by such holder's properly surrendered Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) were converted pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) a cheque in an amount of US dollars equal to any cash dividends or other distributions that such holder has a right to receive and the amount of any cash payable in lieu of any fractions of shares in the Company that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to the merger. In the event of transfers of ownership of shares of Eaton Corporation common stock which are not registered in the transfer records of Eaton Corporation, the proper number of Company Shares may be transferred to a person other than the person in whose name the Eaton Certificate or the Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) so surrendered is registered, if such Eaton Certificate or the Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and the person requesting such transfer shall pay any transfer or other taxes required by reason of the transfer of Company Shares to a person other than the registered holder of such Eaton Certificate or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) or establish to the reasonable satisfaction of the Exchange Agent that such tax has been paid or is not applicable. Any portion of the Eaton Exchange Fund which has not been transferred to the holders of the Eaton Certificates or the Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) as of the one year anniversary of the Merger Effective Time, shall be delivered to the Company or its designee, upon demand, and the Company Shares included therein shall be sold at the best price reasonably obtainable at that time. Any holder of Eaton Certificates or Eaton Book Entry Shares (as applicable) who has not complied with the applicable exchange procedures or duly completed and validly executed the applicable documents necessary to receive the Merger Consideration, prior to the one year anniversary of the Merger Effective Time shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment of such holder's claim for the Merger Consideration (subject to abandoned property, escheat or other similar applicable laws), such claim only being a claim for cash equal to the amount of monies received by the Company for sale of the Company Shares to which such holder had been entitled pursuant to the Merger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


