FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20121204171948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On November 30, 2012, pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, dated May 21, 2012, among Eaton Corporation ("Eaton"), Cooper Industries plc ("Cooper"), Eaton Corporation plc (formerly known as Eaton Corporation Limited, which was formerly known as Abeiron Limited) ("New Eaton"), Abeiron II Limited (formerly known as Comdell Limited) ("Abeiron II"), Turlock B.V. ("Turlock") and Turlock Corporation ("Merger Sub" and together with Eaton, Cooper, New Eaton, Abeiron II and Turlock, the "Original Parties"), as amended on June 22, 2012 by Amendment No. 1 entered into by the Original Parties and Eaton Inc. ("Eaton Sub") and on October 19, 2012 by Amendment No. 2 entered into by the Original Parties and Eaton Sub (as so amended, the "Transaction Agreement"), (a) New Eaton acquired Cooper (the "Acquisition") pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under Section 201, and a capital reduction under Sections 72 and 74, of the Irish Companies Act of 1963 (the "Scheme") and (b) Merger Sub merged with and into Eaton, with Eaton as the surviving corporation in the merger (the "Merger" and, together with the Acquisition, the "Transactions"). Following the consummation of the Transactions, each of Eaton and Cooper became wholly owned subsidiaries of New Eaton.
Upon completion of the Transactions, each Cooper ordinary share (other than those held by Eaton or any of its affiliates) was converted into the right to receive (i) $39.15 in cash and (ii) 0.77479 of a New Eaton ordinary share, and each Eaton common share was converted into the right to receive one New Eaton ordinary share. The cash component of the consideration payable to holders of Cooper ordinary shares was funded from (1) the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of approximately $4.853 billion of senior notes by Merger Sub, which was previously disclosed by New Eaton's Current Reports on Form 8-K filed November 16, 2012 and November 26, 2012, and (2) borrowings of $1.669 billion by Merger Sub on November 30, 2012 under that certain Senior Unsecured Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2012, among New Eaton, Turlock, Merger Sub, the other guarantors party thereto from time to time, the banks party thereto and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent (as amended and modified from time to time).
The issuance of New Eaton ordinary shares in connection with the Transactions was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to New Eaton's registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-182303) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and declared effective on September 7, 2012. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus of Eaton and Cooper, dated September 14, 2012, that forms a part of the Registration Statement (the "Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus") contains additional information about the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, including information concerning the interests of directors, executive officers and affiliates of Eaton and Cooper in the Transactions.
Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), New Eaton is the successor issuer to Eaton and to Cooper. New Eaton's ordinary shares are deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. New Eaton's ordinary shares were approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and trade under the symbol "ETN."
Eaton's common shares (the "Eaton Common Shares") were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NYSE and the Chicago Stock Exchange. Cooper's ordinary shares (the "Cooper Ordinary Shares") were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NYSE. Both the Eaton Common Shares and the Cooper Ordinary Shares were delisted from the NYSE prior to the open of trading on December 3, 2012. The Eaton Common Shares were delisted from the Chicago Stock Exchange prior to the open of trading on December 3, 2012. Each of Eaton and Cooper expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration under the Exchange Act of the Eaton Common Shares and the Cooper Ordinary Shares, respectively.
The foregoing description of the Transaction Agreement and the Transactions is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Transaction Agreement, which was included as Exhibit 2.1 to Cooper's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on May 24, 2012, and Amendment No. 1 to the Transaction Agreement, which was included in Exhibit 2.2 of Cooper's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2012 filed with the SEC on August 8, 2012, and Amendment No. 2 to the Transaction Agreement, which was included as Exhibit 2.1 to Cooper's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 19, 2012, and each of which are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
Prior to the Transactions, the Cooper Ordinary Shares were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NYSE under the symbol "CBE." As a result of the Transactions, each Cooper Ordinary Share (other than those held by Eaton or any of its affiliates) was converted into the right to receive (i) $39.15 in cash and (ii) 0.77479 of a New Eaton ordinary share. Accordingly, Cooper has requested that the NYSE file a Form 25 to withdraw the Cooper Ordinary Shares from listing and terminate the registration of the Cooper Ordinary Shares under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Prior to the open of trading on the NYSE on December 3, 2012, trading in Cooper Ordinary Shares was suspended by the NYSE. On or about December 13, 2012, Cooper expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration of the Cooper Ordinary Shares under the Exchange Act and suspend its reporting obligations under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The information set forth in Item 2.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.01.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
In connection with the Transactions, on November 30, 2012, each Cooper Ordinary Share (other than those held by Eaton or any of its affiliates) was converted into the right to receive (i) $39.15 in cash and (ii) 0.77479 of a New Eaton ordinary share. The information set forth in Item 2.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
Item 5.01. Changes in Control of Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 2.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.01.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On November 30, 2012, in connection with the consummation of the Transactions, Cooper amended and restated its Memorandum and Articles of Association. The amended and restated Memorandum and Articles of Association of Cooper are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) List of Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 4, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE A: The objects specified in each paragraph of this clause shall, except where otherwise expressed in such paragraph, be in no wise limited or restricted by reference to, or inference from, the terms of any other paragraph.
NOTE B: It is hereby declared that the word "company" in this clause (except where it refers to this Company) will be deemed to include any partnership or other body of persons, whether or not incorporated and whether formed in Ireland or elsewhere.
 
 
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, wish to be formed into a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association, and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the Company set opposite our respective names.
 
 
Dated the 4
th
day of June 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the means the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1983;
1983 Act
the means the Companies Act, 1990;
1990 Act
the means the Companies Acts, 1963 to 2012;
Acts
the means the auditors or auditor for the time being of the company;
Auditors
means Ireland excluding Northern Ireland and all references in Table A to "the State" will be construed as meaning references to Ireland; and
Ireland
means Table A in the First Schedule to the Act.
Table A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the company or the subsidiary as the case may be shall not exercise any voting rights in respect of the shares and regulations 63 to 73 of Part I of Table A will be modified accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation 133 of Table A will not apply.
 
 
Dated the 4
th
day of June 2009
 


