FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20120725111606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Second Quarter 2012 Results of Operations.
On July 25, 2012, Cooper Industries plc (the "Company") issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 setting forth the Company's results of operations for the second quarter 2012. The press release includes a reference to free cash flow and the Company's net debt-to-total capitalization ratio. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the press release.
Company management believes that the presentation of free cash flow provides useful information regarding the Company's ability to generate cash without reliance on external financings. In addition, management uses free cash flow to evaluate resources available for investments in the business, strategic acquisitions and strengthening the balance sheet. Company management believes that the net debt-to-total capitalization ratio is a useful measure regarding the Company's financial leverage for evaluating the Company's ability to meet its funding needs.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
99.1 Company press release dated July 25, 2012 titled, "Cooper Industries Reports Record Second Quarter Results
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Cooper Industries plc (NYSE: CBE) today reported record second quarter earnings per share of $1.17, an increase of 22% compared to earnings per share of $.96 for the same period last year. Total operating profit margin was 16.7% for the second quarter of 2012, an increase from 15.8% in the same period last year. During the quarter, the Company recognized $10.7 million of expense relating to the previously announced Eaton Corporation (NYSE: ETN) transaction and certain legacy environmental issues, primarily offset by a $9.1 million gain from the sale of the Envirotemp FR3 fluid business and brand. Excluding the effect of these items, total operating profit margin was 16.8% for the second quarter of 2012, up from 15.8% in the same period last year.
Dublin, Ireland, July 25, 2012
Second quarter 2012 revenues increased $100.8 million, or 7.4%, to $1.47 billion compared to revenues of $1.37 billion in the second quarter of the prior year. Core revenue growth was 5.5%, with acquisitions adding 3.6% and currency translation reducing reported revenues by 1.7% when compared to the prior year. For the quarter, the book-to-bill ratio was 102%, resulting in a backlog that is 20% above the December 31, 2011 backlog. The order rate slowed during the quarter with the June book-to-bill ending at 98%. Growth remained solid in the United States and developing markets where businesses selling into key growth markets such as industrial, utility, and oil & gas, more than offset the continued tepid demand in both commercial and residential construction markets.
During the first six months of 2012 Cooper reported free cash flow of $181.0 million. The company's total debt net of cash as of June 30 was $720.7 million, which resulted in a 15.8% net debt-to-capitalization ratio.
Market Commentary
Geographic End Markets
Core growth for the United States and Canada was 6%, reflecting the continued favorable growth trends in the industrial and utility end markets. The North American lighting business showed mid-single digit core growth driven by continued adoption of LED technology and demand for energy efficient products.
Even in a shifting and uncertain environment in Western Europe, core growth was up 1.3%, which was the result of outstanding execution and highlights the breadth of the Company's exposure to large industrial and energy projects. In addition, the distribution of the Company's European revenue is more weighted to Germany, France, United Kingdom and Northern Europe which benefited the quarter. Commercial product activity was negative as a result of the continued weakness in commercial end markets.
Core growth for developing markets was 8%. Latin America, Australia and the Middle East experienced strong double-digit core growth due to continued demand related to large global energy projects, while China experienced slightly negative core growth, reflecting the slowdown in industrial project activity and consumer-related end markets.
Industry End Markets
The momentum from 2011 and Q1 2012 continued with very solid project activity in the energy markets and demand in the industrial distribution/MRO markets. Increased market growth is being driven by capital spending and improved utilization in the industrial manufacturing and energy markets.
Utility end markets continued to experience solid investment trends in transmission and distribution, with emphasis on replacement of aged infrastructure with Transformers and LIPE products experiencing solid growth. Sales for the Energy Automation Solutions (EAS) business continued to be somewhat muted.
Commercial construction activity was bolstered by slight improvements in new projects and continued retrofit/remodeling activity. New products, particularly those with energy efficient features, showed the greatest improvement.
After experiencing two consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, our retail channel business was down 3% for the quarter.
 
Segment Results
Energy & Safety Solutions
Segment revenues for the second quarter of 2012 increased 5.7% to $793.6 million, compared with $751.1 million in the second quarter 2011. Core revenues were 6.6% higher than the comparable prior year period, with acquisitions adding 1.5% and currency translation reducing reported revenues by 2.4%. Core revenue growth was driven by continued demand for utility products and strong demand for our highly specified products destined for the global industrial and energy markets.
Segment operating earnings were $160.8 million, an increase of 20.4% from the $133.5 million in the prior year's second quarter. Segment operating margin increased 250 basis points to 20.3% for the second quarter 2012, compared to 17.8% for the second quarter of 2011.
During the quarter, a $9.1 million gain was recognized related to the sale of the Envirotemp FR3 fluid business and brand. Excluding the gain and the impact of acquisitions, segment operating earnings were $150.5 million, an increase of 12.7% and segment operating margin increased 140 basis points to 19.2%.
Electrical Products Group
Segment revenues for the second quarter of 2012 increased 9.4% to $676.1 million, compared with $617.8 million in the second quarter 2011. Core revenues were 4.2% higher than prior year, with acquisitions adding 6.2% and currency translation decreasing reported results by 1.0%. Core revenue growth was driven by industrial and commercial products relating to large energy projects and continued robust demand for energy efficient products. The growth was somewhat muted by the continued weak commercial and residential construction markets.
Segment operating earnings were $99.9 million, an increase of 7.3% from the $93.1 million reported in the prior year's second quarter. Segment operating margin decreased 30 basis points to 14.8% for the second quarter of 2012, compared to a second quarter 2011 of 15.1%. Excluding the impact from acquisitions, segment operating margin increased 50 basis points to 15.6%.
 
Tools Joint Venture
Equity income from the Apex Tool Group joint venture was $18.1 million for the second quarter of 2012, compared to equity income of $14.4 million in the second quarter of 2011. The earnings improvement was a result of solid top line results and the continued benefits resulting from productivity projects.
Cooper Industries Announces Two Acquisitions:
Cooper Industries completed in June the acquisition of Azonix Corporation, a leading manufacturer of human machine interface (HMI) devices for application in harsh and hazardous environments, from Azonix's parent company, Crane Co. (NYSE:CR).
 
 
 
 
Cooper Industries announces it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the FHF Funke+Huster Fernsig Group of companies (FHF Group), a leading manufacturer and distributor of hazardous and industrial telephones, signaling devices and mining communications systems, from FHF Group parent company, Apricum Capital GmbH.
 
 
 
The Company has now completed 14 acquisitions around the Energy vertical market.
 
Outlook
Because of the previously announced transaction with Eaton Corporation (NYSE: ETN), the Company has suspended providing earnings guidance updates.
About Cooper
Cooper is a diversified global manufacturer of electrical components and tools, with 2011 reve-nues of $5.4 billion. Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation and evolving business practices, while maintaining the highest ethical standards and meeting customer needs. Cooper has seven operating divisions with leading po-sitions and world-class products and brands including Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fix-tures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long term growth trends including the global in-frastructure build out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety. In 2011, 62 percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and 40 percent of total sales were to customers outside the United States. Cooper has manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2011.
Statement Required By The Takeover Rules
The directors of Cooper accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Cooper (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this communication is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management believes that net debt to capital is a useful measure regarding Cooper Industries' financial leverage for evaluating the Company's ability to meet its funding needs.
Note:
 
 
Management believes that free cash flow provides useful information regarding Cooper Industries' ability to generate cash without reliance on external financings. In addition, management uses free cash flow to evaluate the resources available for investments in the business, strategic acquisitions and strengthening the balance sheet.
Note:
 
 
 
 
 


