FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20041029101536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 29, 2004, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is also incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information posted on the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at www.bms.com.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated October 29, 2004, reporting Bristol-Myers Squibb's financial results for the third quarter of 2004.
Exhibit 99.2  Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb's website at www.bms.com not included in the press release.
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(NEW YORK, October 29, 2004)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported net earnings of $758 million on sales of $5.4 billion for the third quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.38, or $.44 on a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items.
"This was a solid quarter for our growth drivers across our businesses and geographies, including our newer products  ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX," said Peter R. Dolan, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are hopeful about significant further growth potential for these products, with additional indications for ABILIFY and REYATAZ achieved this past quarter. In addition, our in-line drivers continue to be a source of strength, with worldwide sales of PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE increasing 30%. Several of our health care lines  including Cardiolite, Wound Therapeutics and Mead Johnson international  grew at double digit rates as well.
"We are making good progress executing against our strategy and transforming our portfolio to build or strengthen our leadership position in 10 disease areas. As part of this strategy, we continue to increase investment in research and development, and expect that investment to grow in the 12% range for the year. Nevertheless, as we have discussed previously, our earnings will continue to be pressured through our portfolio transition to the end of 2006 as a result of exclusivity losses of higher margin products, as well as higher investments in R&D and key product support."
 
THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
NINE MONTHS RESULTS
 
THIRD QUARTER BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES
Pharmaceuticals
 
Oncology Therapeutics Network
Nutritionals
Worldwide Nutritional sales decreased 7%, including a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $484 million from $518 million in 2003. Excluding the divested Adult Nutritional business, sales increased 5%, to $484 million from $459 million in 2003, including a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange impact. Also excluding Adult Nutritional, international sales increased 16%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, from increased sales of infant formula and children's nutritional products, while U.S. sales decreased 6%, from decreased sales under the WIC (Women, Infants and Children) program. Mead Johnson continues to be the leader in the U.S. infant formula market.
Other Healthcare
DEVELOPMENTS
 
OUTLOOK
The Company reaffirms its previous full-year 2004 guidance for fully diluted earnings per share of $1.60 to $1.65 per share on an adjusted non-GAAP basis. The Company's previous guidance excluded certain types of items which are included in earnings per share under GAAP, as set forth under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information". Based on the estimate of these items at the time, previous guidance for fully diluted earnings per share for 2004 was expected to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.48 per share. Taking into account the current estimate of these items, including the restructuring and other charges recorded in the third quarter, the Company now estimates that fully diluted earnings per share for full-year 2004 is expected to be in the range of $1.39 to $1.44 per share. This information does not include other items, which may occur during the fourth quarter, such as any adjustment for income taxes related to dividends that the Company expects to receive from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, charges relating to new transactions or arrangements resulting in write-off of in process research and development, restructurings and significant legal proceedings as set forth in the Company's SEC filings or any insurance recoveries of amounts paid as a result of any such proceedings.
As previously disclosed, although anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2005 and 2006 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the Company's in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. In addition, earnings will be adversely affected by the Company's investments to support the introduction of new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. In 2007, based on management's current estimates of growth of the Company's in-line and recently launched products and a risk-adjusted assessment of potential new product launches, the Company expects earnings growth will resume. Consistent with prior years, the Company expects to provide guidance for 2005 in early 2005.
As previously disclosed, the Company expects substantial incremental sales losses in each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in sales of the products that lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003 and 2004 and additional declines attributable to products that will lose exclusivity protection primarily in 2005 and 2006. These products (and the years in which they lose exclusivity protection) include GLUCOPHAGE/GLUCOVANCE/GLUCOPHAGE XR in the United States (2002 to 2004), TAXOL in Europe (2003), MONOPRIL in the United States and Canada (2003),
 
PRAVACHOL in the United States (2006) and in Europe (2002 to 2007), PARAPLATIN in the United States (2004), MONOPRIL in Europe (2001 to 2008), ZERIT in the United States (2008) and in Europe (2007 to 2011), CEFZIL in the United States (2005) and in Europe (2004 to 2009) and VIDEX/VIDEX EC (2004 to 2009  the Company has a patent license expiring in 2007, the license became non-exclusive in 2001 though no other licenses have yet been granted). The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
The Company also expects to have growth opportunities during this period. These opportunities include growth from its in-line and recently launched products, primarily PLAVIX, AVAPRO/AVALIDE, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX and the Company's compounds in late stage development, subject to regulatory approval from the Food and Drug Administration, which include muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for diabetes, abatacept, for rheumatoid arthritis, and entecavir, for hepatitis B. Expectations of continued sales growth are subject to the outcome of the previously disclosed PLAVIX patent litigation, competitive factors including those relating to PRAVACHOL discussed below and risks of product development and regulatory approval.
The Company's expectations for future sales growth described above include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX, which had net sales of approximately $2.4 billion in the first nine months of 2004 and is currently the Company's largest product by sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX have been instituted outside the United States. The Company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX. However, if generic competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second quarter of 2005.
PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin), had net sales of $1.9 billion in the first nine months of 2004. While the product has begun to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in market share could be accelerated by increased competition from established brands and new entrants. PRAVACHOL U.S. sales declined 18% and 31% and U.S. total prescriptions declined 9% and 13% in the second and third quarters, respectively, of 2004 compared to 2003.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company's results of operations.
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the Company's Form 10-K/A Annual Report for 2003. Information on the dates of expected loss of exclusivity protection and sales for the most recent year for the Company's major products are set forth in "Item 1.
 
Business" of the Company's Form 10-K/A Annual Report for 2003, and interim sales information is included under "Third Quarter Business Segment Net SalesPharmaceuticals" above.
Use Of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the Company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions, litigation, and the impact and result of any litigation or governmental investigations related to the financial statement restatement process. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future
 
clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on October 29, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. (EST) during which Company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 719-457-2641. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Robert Hutchinson, 609-252-3901, or Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Corporate Affairs, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck      Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for the three and nine months ended, September 30, 2004 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003, respectively. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the Company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the Company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differs from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
*In Excess of 200%
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended September 30, 2004
Three months ended September 30, 2003
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2004
Nine months ended September 30, 2003

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
Corporate Overview - Continuing Operations
* in excess of +/- 200%
 
Corporate Overview
* in excess of +/- 200%
 
 
 
 
 
* amounts may not add due to rounding of individual calculations.
 
 
 
* The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of one month calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of one month by using the most recent prior four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties.


