FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20040315072355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS.
 
On March 15, 2004, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business to be Acquired: Not Applicable.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information: Not Applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 15, 2004
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, NEW YORK, March 15, 2004)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) announced today that it filed its 2003 Form 10-K including its restated prior periods financial results. On January 29, 2004, the Company stated in its fourth quarter 2003 earnings release that throughout 2003 the Company recorded various charges and adjustments to correct accounting errors relating to prior periods. Although the Company believes many of these errors could be considered to be not material, the Company has decided to restate based on their cumulative impact. The restatement includes adjustments to reflect those items in the correct accounting periods and adjustments to correct certain classification errors in prior periods.
 
After the restatement, the Company reported net earnings of $506 million on sales of $5.7 billion for the fourth quarter of 2003 as compared to previously disclosed net earnings of $429 million on sales of $5.6 billion. Reported fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.26 as compared to previously disclosed $.22. Reported net earnings for the full year 2003 were $3,106 million on sales of $20.9 billion as compared
to previously disclosed net earnings of $2,952 million on sales of $20.7 billion. Reported fully diluted earnings per share for the full year 2003 were $1.59 as compared to previously disclosed $1.51.
 
The effect of the adjustments reflected in the restatement on earnings per share for each of the four years ended December 31, 2002 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 is set forth below.
 
 
 
Appendix 1 presents the Company's earnings results on a condensed basis as previously disclosed and as reported for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the quarter ended December 31, 2003. Appendix 2 presents the impact of the restatement on the Company's previously reported results on a condensed basis for 2002 and 2001.
 
The restatement corrects the classification of certain highly liquid investments as marketable securities instead of cash and cash equivalents. The amount of these investments now classified as marketable securities on the balance sheet (instead of as cash) at December 31, 2001 and 2002, and at September 30, 2003, was approximately $0.9 billion, $1.6 billion and $2.3 billion, respectivelyIn addition, certain amounts have been reclassified from "Other expense, net," to the appropriate expense item in the "Statement of Earnings," with no overall impact on net earnings for any of the periods presented. In connection with the restatement, the Company determined that certain inappropriate adjustments to tax items, including adjustments for contingency reserves made prior to 2000 for the improper purpose of recording a provision for income taxes consistent with the Company's projected effective tax rate, may have been reflected in the errors corrected in the restatement.
.
The 2003 Form 10-K filed today includes the Company's restated 2001 and 2002 Consolidated Statement of Earnings and December 31, 2002 Consolidated Balance Sheet
1
.
 
The Company has continued to identify and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. These actions led to the Company identifying many of the items in the restatement. The Company's efforts to strengthen its financial and internal controls continue.
 
The Company also notes that it revised previously disclosed fourth quarter and full year 2003 earnings to reflect additional charges of $29 million. These charges are already reflected in the fourth quarter results discussed above. This increase primarily relates to an increase in the litigation reserve for wholesaler inventory issues from $125 million to $150 million to reflect a change in the Company's estimate of the minimum expected probable loss in connection with this matter. A reconciliation of these items and other changes in the amounts of prior period errors previously disclosed in our earnings release for 2003 fourth quarter and full year, is posted on the Company's website at
www.bms.com.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 
 
Company and Conference Call Information
 
There will be a conference call on March 15, 2004 at 9:00 AM (EST) during which Andrew Bonfield, chief financial officer, will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at http://www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4910. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
Exhibit 1
 
 
 
Exhibit 2
 
The following table presents the impact of the restatement adjustments on the Company's previously reported 2002 and 2001 results on a condensed basis:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above presentation contains non-GAAP earnings information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains or losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinued of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
The above presentation contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains or losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinued of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.


