FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20040729101556.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being furnished pursuant to both Item 9 and Item 12.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on July 29, 2004 regarding earnings for the second quarter of 2004, attached as Exhibit 99.1. Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(NEW YORK, July 29, 2004)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported net earnings of $527 million on sales of $5.4 billion for the second quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.27 compared to $.46 in the second quarter of 2003. Excluding specified items described below, fully diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the quarter increased to $.46 from $.45 in the second quarter of 2003.
"Our company realized broad-based revenue growth in the quarter, led by the strong performance across geographies of our key brands, including PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, as well as by the important and growing contributions of our newer products, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX," said Peter R. Dolan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "ABILIFY recently gained marketing approval in the European Union, and both REYATAZ and ERBITUX continue to gain share and perform ahead of plan. In addition, several of our related health care businesses, including ConvaTec and Medical Imaging, achieved excellent growth in the quarter, and are contributing meaningfully to our overall strength.
"In our pharmaceutical business, we continue to make good progress executing our strategy and transitioning our portfolio to become more focused on disease areas where the need for better treatments is great, and where we have promising pipeline or licensing opportunities to build leadership positions. To that end, we are investing significantly behind our growth drivers and late-stage pipeline. Spending on R&D increased 19% in the quarter, and we expect to continue a robust level of investment in this critically important area through the rest of the year, as we prepare to make up to three new drug filings over the next six months, and to transition several important compounds to full development."
 
SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
SIX MONTHS RESULTS
 
SECOND QUARTER BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES
Pharmaceuticals
 
Oncology Therapeutics Network
Nutritionals
Other Healthcare
DEVELOPMENTS
 
OUTLOOK
The Company expects that it will exceed its previous full-year 2004 guidance for fully diluted earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.55 per share on an adjusted non-GAAP basis. The Company now estimates that its fully diluted earnings per share for 2004 will exceed previous guidance by approximately $.10 per share on an adjusted non-GAAP basis, or $1.60 to $1.65, reflecting primarily better than expected performance of approximately $.09 per share in the first half of 2004. This revised guidance is subject to a number of uncertainties, which could either positively or negatively affect second half performance versus expectations, including the degree to which generic competition impacts sales of TAXOL in Europe and PARAPLATIN in the United States in the second half of 2004. As of the end of the second quarter of this year, TAXOL in Europe had not yet suffered some of the previously anticipated generic competition and subsequent sales declines following loss of exclusivity. Generic competition for TAXOL in Europe has increased during the third quarter and is expected to continue to increase during subsequent quarters. Market exclusivity protection for PARAPLATIN in the United States expires in October 2004. Under a settlement agreement entered into in April 2004 with a generic manufacturer who had brought a patent infringement lawsuit, the Company continues to distribute PARAPLATIN (carboplatin) and has begun to sell product to the generic manufacturer. The generic manufacturer began to distribute an unbranded version of carboplatin in June 2004.
The Company's previous guidance excluded certain types of items which are included in earnings per share under GAAP, as set forth under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information". Based on the estimate of these items at the time, previous guidance for fully diluted earnings per share for 2004 was expected to be in the range of $1.49 to $1.54 per share. Taking into account the current estimate of these items, including the litigation charges recorded in the second quarter, the Company now estimates that fully diluted earnings per share for full-year 2004 is expected to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.48 per share. This information does not include other items, which may occur during the year, such as charges relating to new transactions or arrangements resulting in write-off of in process research and development, restructurings and significant legal proceedings as set forth in the Company's SEC filings or any insurance recoveries of amounts paid as a result of any such proceedings.
The Company currently believes that its estimates for the range of fully diluted earnings per share for each of 2005 and 2006 will be somewhat below the current Thomson First Call Consensus Estimates for those years ($1.49 for 2005 and $1.46 for 2006). Although anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during those years are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the Company's in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity have higher margins than the products expected to increase sales. In addition, earnings will be adversely impacted by the Company's need to invest to support the introduction of new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. In 2007, based on management's current estimates of growth of the Company's in-line and recently launched products and a risk-adjusted assessment of potential new product launches, the Company expects earnings growth will resume. Consistent with prior years, the Company expects to provide guidance for 2005 in late 2004 or early 2005.
As previously disclosed, the Company expects substantial incremental exclusivity losses in each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in sales of the products that lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003 and 2004 and additional declines attributable to products that will lose exclusivity protection in 2005, 2006 and 2007. These products include GLUCOPHAGE/GLUCOVANCE/GLUCOPHAGE XR in the United States (2003 to 2004),
 
TAXOL in Europe (2003), MONOPRIL in the United States and Canada (2003), PRAVACHOL in the United States (2006) and in Europe (2002 to 2007), PARAPLATIN in the United States (2004), SERZONE in the United States (2003), MONOPRIL in Europe (2001 to 2008), ZERIT in the United States (2008) and in Europe (2007 to 2011), CEFZIL in the United States (2005) and in Europe (2004 to 2009) and VIDEX/VIDEX EC (2004 to 2009  the Company has a patent license expiring in 2007, the license became non-exclusive in 2001 though no other licenses have yet been granted). The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
The Company also expects to have growth opportunities during this period. These opportunities include growth from its in-line and recently launched products, primarily PLAVIX, AVAPRO/AVALIDE, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX and the Company's compounds in late stage development, subject to regulatory approval from the Food and Drug Administration, which include muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for diabetes, abatacept, for rheumatoid arthritis, and entecavir, for hepatitis B. Expectations of continued sales growth are subject to the outcome of the previously disclosed PLAVIX patent litigation, competitive factors including those relating to PRAVACHOL discussed below and risks of product development and regulatory approval.
The Company's expectations for future sales growth described above include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX, which had net sales of approximately $2.5 billion in 2003 and is currently the Company's largest product by sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX also have been instituted outside the United States. The company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX, However, if generic competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before sometime in 2005.
PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin), was the Company's largest product by net sales in 2003 ($2.8 billion). While the product has begun to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in 2006, its expected rate of decline in market share could be accelerated by the recently reported results of clinical studies. Since the release of the most recent of these studies in early March 2004, PRAVACHOL has experienced a decline in U.S. prescription market share, with total U.S. prescriptions decreasing 9% in the second quarter of 2004 compared to 2003.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company's results of operations.
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the Company's
 
Form 10-K/A Annual Report for 2003. Information on the dates of expected loss of exclusivity protection and sales for the most recent year for the Company's major products are set forth in "Item 1. Business" of the Company's Form 10-K/A Annual Report for 2003, and interim sales information is included under "Second Quarter Business Segment Net SalesPharmaceuticals" above.
Use Of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the Company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions, litigation,
 
and the impact and result of any litigation or governmental investigations related to the financial statement restatement process. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on July 29, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. (EST) during which Company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 719-457-2649. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Rebecca Taylor, 609-252-4476, or Jayne O'Connor, 609-252-5120, Corporate Affairs, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Sue Walser, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Synthelabo S.A.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for the three and six months ended, June 30, 2004 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2003, respectively. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the Company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the Company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differs from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended June 30, 2004
Three months ended June 30, 2003
 
Six months ended June 30, 2004
Six months ended June 30, 2003

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
 
 
 
 


