FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20040428102347.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to both Item 9 and Item 12.
 
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on April 28, 2004 regarding earnings for the first quarter of 2004, attached as Exhibit 99.1.   Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated:  April 28, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, April 28, 2004)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported net earnings of $964 million on sales of $5.2 billion for the first quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.49. Excluding specified items described below, fully diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the quarter were $.41, the same as the first quarter of  2003.
 
"We saw solid performance in the quarter across our businesses, franchises and geographies, with good growth in global sales of our key pharmaceuticals, including Plavix and Abilify, as well as our important Healthcare lines, such as Enfamil, Wound Therapeutics, Ostomy and Cardiolite," said Peter R. Dolan, chairman and chief executive officer.  "Our three recently launched products continue to build strength, with total revenue for Abilify, a treatment for schizophrenia, reaching $115 million in the quarter, and its weekly new prescription share now at approximately 8%.  Sales of our protease inhibitor, Reyataz, reached $75 million in its third full quarter on the market, and ERBITUX  an anticancer therapy that was launched in late February  is also off to a promising start.
 
"We continue to execute against our strategy to build long-term strength and leadership for the company by boosting critical investments in our growth drivers and late-stage pipeline.  In the quarter, we significantly increased investments in research and development as we apply greater focus on our ten disease areas.  We also increased advertising and promotion support behind our new products.  In light of the Company's performance, we reaffirm our full year earnings per share guidance of $1.50 to $1.55 on a fully
 
diluted, non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items."
 
 
FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
FIRST QUARTER BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES
 
Pharmaceuticals
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The Company reaffirms its prior estimate that its fully diluted earnings per share for 2004 are expected to be in the range of  $1.50 to 1.55 per share on an adjusted non-GAAP basis.  This estimate takes into account the Company's current assessments of: the market position of PRAVACHOL; the status of PARAPLATIN exclusivity; delay in impact of loss of exclusivity of GLUCOVANCE in the United States and of TAXOL in Europe; and performance of in-line products including PLAVIX.  These estimates exclude certain types of items which are included in earnings per share under GAAP, as set forth under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."   Taking these items into account, the current estimate of fully-diluted earnings per share would be expected to be in the range of $1.49 to $1.54 per share.  This information does not include other items, which may occur during the year, such as charges relating to new transactions or arrangements resulting in write-off of in process research and development, restructurings and significant legal proceedings.
 
The Company expects to have both growth opportunities and exclusivity challenges over the next several years.  The opportunities include expected growth from in-line, recently launched and potential new products.  Such growth contributed significantly to results for the current quarter.  Expectations of continued sales growth are subject to the outcome of the previously disclosed Plavix patent litigation, competitive factors including those relating to PRAVACHOL discussed below, and risks of product development and regulatory approval.  Also, the Company expects changes in product mix to pressure Company margins because the products losing exclusivity carry higher margins than products expected to increase in sales.
 
In relation to exclusivity, the Company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.2 to $1.3 billion from the 2003 levels for products, which have lost or will lose exclusivity protections in 2003 or 2004, specifically the metformin franchise (GLUCOPHAGE/GLUCOVANCE) in the United States, TAXOL in Europe,  MONOPRIL in the United States and Canada, Pravastatin in certain countries in Europe, PARAPLATIN in the United  States and SERZONE in the United States.  GLUCOVANCE in
the United States and TAXOL in Europe have not yet suffered some of the previously anticipated competition and subsequent sales declines following loss of exclusivity.
 
Some exclusivity losses for Paraplatin are now expected earlier in 2004 based on the recently disclosed patent litigation settlement and related distribution arrangement with a generic manufacturer, which is subject to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) approval.  The settlement would provide that, in addition to the Company continuing to market Paraplatin, the generic manufacturer would enter the market before the anticipated expiration of exclusivity.  The estimates above assume receiving approval from the FDA of a six-month extension of exclusivity for Paraplatin to October 2004 based on pediatric studies, and approval from the FTC.  These approvals cannot be assured.
 
Substantial incremental exclusivity losses are expected in each of 2005 to 2007.  The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
 
PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, was the Company's largest product by net sales in 2003.  While the product is beginning to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in 2006, its expected rate of decline in market share could be accelerated by the recently reported results of clinical studies.  Since release of the most recent of these studies in early March 2004, PRAVACHOL has experienced a modest decline in U.S. prescription market share.
 
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations.  It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations.  Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity.
 
For additional discussion of legal matters including the Plavix patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary DataNote 22 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for 2003.
 
*These items include gain on the disposition of the Mead Johnson Adult Nutritional business, reduced by charges for announced milestone payments for in-process research and development in connection with external development activities, for in-process research and development in the Acordis acquisition, and for anticipated restructurings and relocations.   Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the Company's website.
 
 
Use Of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items.  Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar
charges; charges relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results.   In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods.  This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the Company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy.  These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.   Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions, litigation, and the impact and result of any litigation or governmental investigations related to the financial statement restatement process. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful.  For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 
There will be a conference call on April 28, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. (EST) during which Company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4910. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tracy Furey, 609-252-3208, or Bonnie Jacobs, 609-252-4089, Corporate Affairs, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Sue Walser, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
 
 
 
 
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Synthelabo S.A.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck  Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for the three months ended, March 31, 2004 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2003, respectively.  In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the Company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products.  The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data.  A significant portion of the Company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers.  Where changes in reported net sales differs from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
*In Excess of 200%
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
* in excess of 200%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* amounts may not add due to rounding of individual calculations.
 
 
 
 
 


