FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20051201102736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the third quarter of 2005 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was supplemental information posted on the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at www.bms.com. This supplemental information has been revised to include net sales, months on hand, and demand information for key products as of September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005 for the Company's International Pharmaceuticals, Mead Johnson Nutritionals and Related Healthcare reporting segments. The revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business (based on 2004 net sales), the amount of the U.S. Pharmaceutical business's net sales of the applicable product for each of the three months through September 30, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel at the end of each quarter.
 
 
The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of thirty-one days calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using data from third parties which data are a product of the third parties' own record-keeping processes and such third-party data also may reflect estimates.
 
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States.
 
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers as of March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer outmovement data over the most recent thirty-one day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
International Pharmaceuticals, Mead Johnson Nutritionals and Related Healthcare
 
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the Company's International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company's major non-U.S. countries (based on 2004 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below: a) the net sales as of September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005; and b) the estimated number of months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel as of September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates of demand are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States. Corresponding information for the top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2004 net sales) sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, appears in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005.
 
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the Company's International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company's major non-U.S. countries (based on 2004 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below the percentage change in the Company's estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the month of September 2005 compared to, the month of June 2005, and the month of June 2005, compared to the month of March 2005.
 
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate months on hand product inventory levels at direct customers as of September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer outmovement data over the most recent thirty-one day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
 
The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand product inventory levels and ultimate patient/consumer demand for these reporting segments. Where available, the Company relies on information provided by third parties to determine estimates of aggregate months on hand product inventory levels at direct customers and ultimate patient/consumer expected demand. For the reporting segments listed above, however, the Company has limited information on direct customer months on hand product inventory levels, end-user consumption and direct customer outmovement data. Further, the quality of third party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new products or seasonal products, such historical end-user consumption or outmovement information may not be available or applicable. In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or outmovement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Such data from third parties are a product of the third parties' own record-keeping processes and also may reflect estimates.
 
As of September 30, 2005, Efferalgan and Dafalgan, key analgesic products sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 and 1.3 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing Efferalgan and Dafalgan approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the products.
 
As of September 30, 2005, Nutramigen and Prosobee, infant nutritional products sold principally in the United States, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to the impact of retailers holding higher levels of inventory in response to Hurricane Katrina. The Company plans to continue to monitor sales of Nutramigen and Prosobee with the intention of working down wholesaler inventory levels to less than one month on hand.
 
As previously disclosed, the Company has established a company-wide policy to limit its sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the SEC Consent Order. This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels any potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. Compliance with the policy will be monitored on a regular basis.
 
In addition, the Company maintains arrangements with various wholesalers/direct customers and other distributors of its pharmaceutical products outside of the United States, based on the Company's business needs and the requirements of certain countries and regions. Some of these agreements require the direct customers to provide the Company with information on months on hand product inventory levels and product outmovement. In limited circumstances, where logistical issues exist, such as the time required to transport products to remote locations and local practices, including in some cases, government requirements, some agreements require direct customers to hold specific levels of inventory ranging from
one to three months of product on hand. The Company maintains these agreements to support the high levels of customer service requirements in these countries and regions, including ensuring the availability of life saving and important therapeutic agents.
 
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct customers, including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of it own and third parties' data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties' data in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non-U.S. Pharmaceutical business.


