FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050428080217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 28, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is also incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information posted on the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated April 28, 2005, reporting Bristol-Myers Squibb's financial results for the first quarter of 2005.
 
Exhibit 99.2  Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb's website at not included in the press release.
www.bms.com
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
 
 
Dated: April 28, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, April 28, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2005, in line with expectations, detailed recent pipeline achievements and reaffirmed its non-GAAP earnings guidance for the year.
 
The company posted first quarter 2005 net sales of $4.5 billion from continuing operations, excluding the Oncology Therapeutics Network unit being sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb in a previously announced transaction, a decrease of 2% compared to first quarter 2004 net sales of $4.6 billion. As expected, continued exclusivity losses on older products were partially offset by the growth of the company's in-line and new products.
 
The company reported first quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $626 million, or $.32 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $961 million, or $.49, the same period last year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb reported first quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $670 million, or $.34 per diluted share, on a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, compared to $804 million, or $.41, the same period last year.
 
"Our first quarter financial results were in line with the portfolio transition that we've been discussing for some time," said Peter R. Dolan, chairman and chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The company is on track to achieve its goals and our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance for the year remains unchanged. We continue to execute our strategy and our pipeline continues to advance as we add more growth drivers for the future. We continue to invest in research and development, with a 7% increase, excluding milestone payments, in the first quarter of 2005 over the same period in the prior year."
 
FOURTH NEW DRUG APPROVED
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb obtained its fourth new drug approval in just two and a half years when, in March 2005, the Food and Drug Administration approved BARACLUDE (entecavir) for treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection in adults with evidence of active viral replication and either evidence of persistent elevations in serum aminotransferases (ALT or AST) or histologically active disease.
 
"We were pleased by the FDA's approval of BARACLUDE following the unanimous recommendation of the Antiviral Drugs Advisory Committee and we are in regulatory reviews with FDA on muraglitazar and abatacept," said Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D., chief scientific officer and president of the Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute. "First quarter progress in our pipeline was also demonstrated by FDA approval of a new ABILIFY indication for maintaining efficacy in patients with Bipolar I Disorder, as well as the results of the CLARITY' and COMMIT' trials for PLAVIX
."
 
PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
 
Muraglitazar's discovery by Bristol-Myers Squibb could lead to the first in a new class of compounds for type 2 diabetes, building on the company's history of providing treatments for
 
the disease. The FDA recently accepted the muraglitazar New Drug Application, and the company and its partner, Merck & Co., Inc., plan to present Phase III data at the American Diabetes Association meeting in June.
 
Abatacept is Bristol-Myers Squibb's first internally discovered biologic, and would be the first in a new class of agents for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The company completed its abatacept rolling Biologics License Application last month and plans to present Phase III data on the compound at the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) Congress in June.
 
The company has concentrated its product and pipeline focus on disease areas of significant unmet need where innovative medicines can help people with serious illnesses, including: cancer, HIV/AIDS, psychiatric disorders, diabetes, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, hepatitis, rheumatoid arthritis, obesity, Alzheimer's disease and solid organ transplantation.
 
FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST QUARTER BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES
 
Pharmaceuticals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nutritionals
 
 
 
 
Related Healthcare
 
 
 
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb's Nutritionals and Related Healthcare segments posted combined revenues of $969 million, or 21% of the company's total net sales from continuing operations, compared to $935 million or 20% in the same period the year prior.
 
DEVELOPMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 GUIDANCE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb reaffirmed its earnings guidance of fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2005 to be between $1.35 and $1.45 on an adjusted non-GAAP basis which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
 
The company raised its estimate of fully diluted earnings per share when adding back exclusions  such as milestone payments in connection with previously announced external development, cost of early debt retirement, litigation settlements (including related insurance recoveries for significant legal proceedings) and restructurings activities from continuing operations  to $1.37 to $1.47, from $1.27 to $1.37, primarily due to insurance recoveries related to the STADOL NS and SERZONE product liability lawsuits, and under certain Directors and Officers and Fiduciary Liability insurance policies.
 
Factors that may cause variation in the company's earnings estimates and other risks and uncertainties, are discussed in the company's "Statement on Cautionary Factors," below, and its Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website. This
 
information does not include other items, which may occur during the year, such as any charges relating to new transactions or arrangements resulting in write-off of in-process research and development, other restructurings, gain on asset disposals and significant legal proceedings (including related potential insurance recoveries). This estimate also excludes potential adjustments to the deferred tax charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004 that may be required due to any modifications to the Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or the issuance of additional clarifying guidance from the Department of Treasury.
 
As previously disclosed, although anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2005 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the company's in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. In addition, earnings will be adversely affected by the company's investments to support the introduction of new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. The company will continue to rationalize its cost base in line with its strategy to focus on ten disease areas of significant unmet medical need and increase its sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care prescribers.
 
As previously disclosed, the company has experienced substantial revenue losses in the last few years due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection for certain of its products. The company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in 2005, representing continuing declines in revenues of those products as well as declines in revenues of certain additional products that will lose market exclusivity in 2005. For 2005, the company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2004 levels for products which have lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003, 2004 or 2005, primarily GLUCOVANCE, CEFZIL, PARAPLATIN and VIDEX EC in the United States and TAXOL and PRAVACHOL in Europe. The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
 
The company's expectations for future sales growth include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX, which had net sales of $3.3 billion for 2004, and is currently the
 
company's largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX have been instituted outside the United States. The company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi-Aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX. However, if generic competition in the U.S. were to occur, the company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005.
 
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the company's results of operations.
 
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 21 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the company's Form 10-K Annual Report for 2004.
 
Use Of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a
 
basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and litigation, including the outcome of the PLAVIX litigation in the U.S., and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 
There will be a conference call on April 28, 2005 at 9 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 800-817-8874. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeff Schoenborn, 212-546-2846, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
 
 
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis
GLUCOPHAGE, GLOCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck Sante, S.A.S., an associate of     Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2004. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differs from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2005
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
 
Other (Income)/Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three Months ended March 31, 2005
 
 
Three Months ended March 31, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties.


