FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050510061901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 28, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the company's financial results for the first quarter of 2005. Also furnished as Exhibit 99.2 was supplemental information posted on the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at www.bms.com. This supplemental information has been revised to reflect a reduction in pre-tax earnings by $110 million, reflecting litigation reserves for previously disclosed matters recorded after the issuance of the press release. The previously disclosed matters are wholesaler inventory and certain other accounting matters. The revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.2  Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
 
Other (Income)/Expense
 
 
 
 
 
Three Months ended March 31, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties.


