FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050127103343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 27, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2004 and full-year 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is also incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1  Press release of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated January 27, 2005, reporting Bristol-Myers Squibb's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2004 and full-year 2004.
Exhibit 99.2  Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb's website at not included in the press release.
www.bms.com
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
Table of Contents

 
(NEW YORK, January 27, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported net earnings from continuing operations of $139 million on sales from continuing operations of $5.2 billion for the fourth quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $.07, or $.39 on a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items. Net earnings from continuing operations for the full year 2004 were $2.4 billion on sales from continuing operations of $19.4 billion. Fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year were $1.21, or $1.70 on a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items. The Company signed a definitive agreement in December 2004 to sell its OTN business. As such, the results of operations for OTN are presented as a discontinued operation. OTN's fourth quarter and full year net sales were $691 million and $2.5 billion, respectively, and its earnings had no impact on the Company's basic and diluted earnings per share in 2004 and 2003.
 
"The sustained growth of our key in-line pharmaceuticals, including PLAVIX  and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, along with the continued strong gains of our three newer products  ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX  and the double-digit growth of several of our other healthcare businesses, all have contributed significantly to our overall solid performance in the quarter and year," said Peter R. Dolan, chairman and chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The strong performance of these key brands is helping to ensure the successful transition of our product portfolio, as we continue to execute our strategy and build toward a future of growth and leadership for our company.
"Looking ahead, we will continue to invest meaningfully behind our pipeline and growth drivers, as we did in 2004, despite the pressure from exclusivity losses on our earnings associated with the ongoing transition in our product portfolio. We continue to be hopeful about our three promising late stage pipeline compounds, muraglitazar, abatacept, and entecavir, two of which were filed in the last four months, and we expect to complete the filing of the third early this year."
FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
 
The higher effective tax rate is attributable primarily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth quarter in anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9.0 billion in special dividends from the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and a charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain charitable contribution carry forwards. Factors that partially offset the higher effective tax rate include the retroactive reinstatement of Research and Development Credits which had previously expired on June 30, 2004, increased foreign tax credits, and the treatment of provisions for certain litigation reserves as non-deductible in 2003. The deferred tax charge of $575 million is the Company's best current estimate of the tax cost related to the dividend repatriation. Such estimate may be revised as a result of additional guidance or clarifying language that may be issued by Congress and/or the Department of the Treasury, or any changes in the Company's factual assumptions that may occur. In 2004, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 73% to $.07 from $.26 in 2003. Basic and diluted average shares outstanding for the quarter were 1,943 million and 1,976 million, respectively, compared to 1,937 million and 1,973 million, respectively, in 2003.
FULL YEAR RESULTS
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES
Pharmaceuticals
 
Nutritionals
Other Healthcare
 
 
2005 GUIDANCE
The Company estimates its fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2005 to be between $1.35 and $1.45 on an adjusted non-GAAP basis. These estimates exclude certain types of items included in earnings per share under GAAP as set forth under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information," most significantly, reduced by charges for milestone payments in connection with announced external development activities and anticipated restructurings for manufacturing operations. Taking the specified items into account, the estimate of fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations would be $1.27 to $1.37. Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the Company's website. This information does not include other items, which may occur during the year, such as any charges relating to new transactions or arrangements resulting in write-off of in-process research and development, other restructurings, the expensing of stock options which will be implemented in the second half of 2005, gain on asset disposals, potential insurance recoveries and significant legal proceedings. This estimate also excludes potential adjustments to the deferred tax charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004 that may be required due to any modifications to the Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or the issuance of further guidance from the Department of Treasury, provided that such modification or guidance occurs subsequent to the issuance of the Company's Form 10-K.
As previously disclosed, although anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2005 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the Company's in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. In addition, earnings will be adversely affected by the Company's investments to support the introduction of new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. The Company will continue to rationalize its cost base in line with its strategy to focus on ten disease areas with high unmet medical need and increase its sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care prescribers.
As previously disclosed, the Company has experienced substantial revenue losses in the last few years due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection for certain of its products. The Company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in 2005, representing continuing declines in revenues of those products as well as declines in revenues of certain additional products that will lose market exclusivity in 2005. For 2005, the Company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2004 levels for products which have lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003, 2004 or 2005, primarily CEFZIL PARAPLATIN and VIDEX EC in the United States, TAXOL in Europe and Japan and PRAVACHOL in Europe. The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
,
 
The Company's expectations for future sales growth include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX , which had net sales of $3.3 billion for 2004, and is currently the Company's largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX , which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX have been instituted outside the United States, including Canada. The Company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX . However, if generic competition in the U.S. were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company's results of operations.
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the Company's Form 10-K/A Annual Report for 2003.
Use Of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the Company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the Company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the Company to be not reflective of the Company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the Company uses as a basis for evaluating Company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the Company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions, litigation, and the impact and result of any litigation or governmental investigations related to the financial statement restatement process. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on January 27, 2005 at 10:30 a.m. (EST) during which Company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 719-457-2653 Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
.
For more information, contact: Wilson Grabill, 212-546-4377, or Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Corporate Affairs, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck      Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany Truvada is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc. EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and twelve months ended, December 31, 2004 compared to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2003, respectively. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the Company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the Company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differs from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
     *In Excess of 200%
 
*In Excess of 200%
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2004
Three months ended December 31, 2003
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2004
Twelve months ended December 31, 2003

 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
Corporate Overview
* in excess of +/- 200%
 
Corporate Overview
* in excess of +/- 200%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


