FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050104080500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 3, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
On January 3, 2005, the Registrant's Board of Directors elected James M. Cornelius, non-executive chairman of Guidant Corporation, to its Board of Directors. His election is effective today. Mr. Cornelius will stand for election by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2005. Mr. Cornelius was not elected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other persons. A copy of the press release announcing the election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
On January 3, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Registrant amended Section 15(a) of its Bylaws to state that the Board of Directors shall consist of eleven directors. The previous section stated that the Board of Directors shall consist of ten directors.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
New York, (January 3, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected James M. Cornelius, non-executive chairman of Guidant Corporation, to the Board. His appointment is effective today.
Mr. Cornelius, 61, was employed by Eli Lilly & Company for 28 years. During his career at Lilly, he held various management positions of increasing responsibility, including serving as Lilly's chief financial officer for 11 years. Mr. Cornelius received both a bachelor's degree in accounting and a master's degree in business administration from Michigan State University. Mr. Cornelius was instrumental in the successful initial public offering of Guidant Corporation on the New York Stock Exchange and served as Guidant's Chairman until his retirement as an employee in 2000. In addition to Guidant Corporation, Mr. Cornelius currently serves on the boards of Given Imaging Ltd., The Chubb Corporation and the DirecTV Group, Inc.
"Bristol-Myers Squibb will benefit greatly from Jim's breadth of experience," said Peter R. Dolan, chairman and chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We are indeed fortunate that he has accepted this position."
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


