FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050728084634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 28, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is also incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1  Press release of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated July 28, 2005, reporting Bristol-Myers Squibb's financial results for the second quarter of 2005.
 
Exhibit 99.2  Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb's website at not included in the press release.
www.bms.com
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
 
 
Dated: July 28, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, July 28, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005 and provided further earnings guidance for the full year.
 
The company posted second quarter 2005 net sales of $4.9 billion from continuing operations, excluding the previously announced Oncology Therapeutics Network business unit sold in May 2005, a 1% increase from the same period last year. The results were primarily driven by increased sales of pharmaceutical growth products and nutritionals, partially offset by sales declines associated with the continued exclusivity losses of older pharmaceutical products.
The company reported second quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $991 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $523 million, or $0.27 per diluted share for the same period last year.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb reported second quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $933 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, on a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, compared to $905 million, or $0.46 per diluted share for the same period last year. The increase in earnings includes a significantly lower effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2005.
 
"We had solid performance in the quarter, with two of our newer pharmaceutical growth drivers  ABILIFY and REYATAZ  roughly doubling in sales over the second quarter of last year," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "PLAVIX also delivered excellent growth, with sales increasing 26%.
 
"We're continuing to execute our strategy, and we're building a product portfolio and flexible cost structure that are expected to deliver a period of sustained sales and earnings growth beginning in 2007, when major exclusivity losses should be behind us for some time. In the meantime, despite short term pressure on earnings, we'll continue to increase our investments in R&D, pipeline priorities, new product launches and marketed growth drivers," Dolan added.
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2005, net sales from continuing operations remained constant at $9.4 billion compared to the first half of 2004. Under GAAP, net earnings from continuing operations in the first half of 2005 were $1,529 million, or $0.78 per diluted share compared to $1,484 million, or $0.76 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1,603 million, or $0.81 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2005 compared to $1,709 million, or $0.87 per diluted share for the same period last year.
 
CONTINUED ADVANCEMENT OF R&D PIPELINE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb continues to execute its strategy of serving specialists and high-value primary care physicians by transitioning its product portfolio to focus on disease areas of significant unmet need, where innovative medicines can help patients with serious illnesses.
 
During the second quarter, data on a pair of the company's key Phase III compounds were presented and favorably received at important medical meetings.
 
 
 
Other promising Bristol-Myers Squibb compounds are transitioning to Phase III as the company's pipeline continues to advance. Belatacept, the company's internally developed biologic for the potential treatment of solid organ transplantation rejection, transitioned to Phase III development in the first quarter of 2005. Saxagliptin, a DPP4 inhibitor for the potential treatment of diabetes, is expected to transition to Phase III before the end of the third quarter of 2005.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb's Src/ABL Kinase Inhibitor continues its Phase II registrational program, and the company plans to review data in the fall. This internally-discovered compound, now known as dasatinib, is being investigated for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).
 
In addition, late in the second quarter, company partner ImClone Systems Incorporated announced its intent to submit a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) on ERBITUX in the third quarter of 2005 to seek approval for use of the drug in combination with radiation and as a single agent in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN). ERBITUX is currently indicated for the treatment of refractory metastatic colorectal cancer.
 
SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
 
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was -1.9% and 15.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The lower effective tax rate was primarily driven by:
 
 
 
SPECIFIED ITEMS
 
In the three months ending June 30, 2005 and 2004, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
 
 
 
In addition, a tax benefit of $135 million was recognized to reflect an adjustment to taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings in the second quarter as discussed above.
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2004 included:
 
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
 
PHARMACEUTICALS
 
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales increased 1% to $3.9 billion in the second quarter of 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year.
 
U.S. pharmaceutical sales increased 1% to $2.1 billion in the second quarter of 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the continued growth of PLAVIX and newer products including ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX, partially offset by continued exclusivity
 
losses for PARAPLATIN, the GLUCOPHAGE franchise and VIDEX EC. In aggregate, estimated wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the second quarter were down slightly from the end of the first quarter of 2005, but held at approximately three weeks.
 
International pharmaceutical sales remained unchanged, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, at $1.8 billion for the second quarter of 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year. The sales decrease excluding the favorable impact of foreign exchange was primarily due to a decline in TAXOL and PRAVACHOL sales resulting from increased generic competition, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ and ABILIFY, as well as growth of PLAVIX.
 
Pharmaceutical Growth Drivers
 
Illustrating the continued progress of the company's portfolio transition, worldwide sales of the products that the company views as current and future growth drivers accounted for approximately 45% and 33% of worldwide pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively. U.S. sales of these growth drivers accounted for approximately 66% and 51% of total U.S. pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Pharmaceuticals
 
Sales of pharmaceuticals other than Bristol-Myers Squibb's portfolio of growth drivers generally continue to decline or are no longer expected to generate sustainable sales increases, as a result of increased generic competition.
 
 
 
 
 
NUTRITIONALS AND RELATED HEALTHCARE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb's Nutritionals and Related Healthcare segments posted combined second quarter 2005 revenues of $1,003 million compared to $963 million in the same period in 2004. The two segments continue to generate a significant portion of Bristol-Myers Squibb's revenues and profits, contributing a combined 21% and 27% of second quarter 2005 sales and earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes, respectively.
 
Nutritionals
 
 
 
Related Healthcare
 
 
 
 
2005 NON-GAAP EPS GUIDANCE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb reaffirmed 2005 full year earnings guidance of fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations at the upper end of its previously disclosed $1.35 and $1.45 range, on an adjusted non-GAAP basis which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
 
The company increased its estimate of fully diluted earnings per share when adding back exclusions  such as milestone payments in connection with previously announced external development, cost of early debt retirement, litigation settlements (including related insurance recoveries for significant legal proceedings), the anticipated gain on sale of business and restructurings activities from continuing operations  to $1.49 to $1.59, from $1.35 to $1.45, primarily due to the anticipated gain on sale of the Consumer Medicines business.
 
Factors that may cause variation in the company's earnings estimates and other risks and uncertainties, are discussed in the company's "Statement on Cautionary Factors," below, and its Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the company's results of operations.
 
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 21 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the company's Form 10-K Annual Report for 2004.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; co-promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, pricing controls and pressures, (including changes in rules and practices) of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, competitive product development, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and litigation, including the outcome of the PLAVIX litigation in the U.S., and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 
There will be a conference call on July 28, 2005 at 9 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 719-457-2637. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeffrey Schoenborn, 212-546-2846, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
 
 
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2004. In addition, the tables include, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2005
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2004
 
 
APPENDIX 1
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2005
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
 
Other (Income)/Expense
 
 
 
Corporate Overview
 
 
 
Other (Income)/Expense
 
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales for International and for Domestic do not tie to the Total Company International and Domestic sales
shown above.
 
 
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales for International and for Domestic do not tie to the Total Company International and Domestic sales shown above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2005
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2004
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2005
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2004
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business (based on 2004 net sales), the amount of the U.S. Pharmaceutical business's net sales of the applicable product for each of the three months ended June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel at the end of each quarter.
 
 
The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of thirty-one days calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using data from third parties which data are a product of the third parties' own record-keeping processes and such third-party data also may reflect estimates.
 
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.


