FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20051028090126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 28, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 28, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and provided further earnings guidance for the full year.
 
The company posted third quarter 2005 net sales from continuing operations of $4.8 billion, which were unchanged from the same period last year. Increased sales of newer pharmaceutical products, as well as growth in the Nutritionals segment in the third quarter of 2005 were offset by the impact of continued exclusivity losses among older pharmaceutical products.
The company reported third quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $964 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $755 million, or $0.38 per diluted share for the same period last year.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb reported third quarter 2005 net earnings from continuing operations of $602 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, on a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, compared to $865 million, or $0.44 per diluted share for the same period last year.
 
"Our strategy remains on track and our newer products delivered solid global sales performance during the quarter," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The company's full-year expectations remain within our range and include our decision to make incremental, targeted investments, in addition to the spending programs we identified at mid year, to further support key products and pipeline priorities. And, our robust portfolio sets the stage for sustained growth for the future, with four new products launched in three years, three drugs currently under U.S. regulatory consideration, and another possible filing within the next three months."
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, net sales from continuing operations remained constant at $14.2 billion compared to the same period last year. Under GAAP, net earnings from continuing operations in the nine months ended September 30, 2005 were $2.5 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share compared to $2.2 billion, or $1.14 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings from continuing operations of $2.2 billion, or $1.12 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, compared to $2.6 billion, or $1.31 per diluted share for the same period last year.
 
INCREMENTAL, TARGETED INVESTMENTS AND A ROBUST PIPELINE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is increasing investments behind targeted marketing programs for pharmaceutical products expected to drive future growth in serious disease areas with significant unmet medical need. For example, the company is complementing its efforts focused on high-value primary care physicians and specialists with direct-to-consumer marketing that includes expanded advertising for PLAVIX, and the first-ever print ad campaign for ABILIFY.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is also increasing research and development investments, in line with the low double-digit annual growth rate that continues to be planned for 2005. During the third quarter, among Bristol-Myers Squibb's full-development programs, ORENCIA, a potential therapy for rheumatoid arthritis was recommended for approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Arthritis Advisory Committee and saxagliptin, the company's DPP4 inhibitor for the potential treatment of diabetes transitioned to Phase III.
 
As previously disclosed, on October 18, 2005, the FDA issued an approvable letter for PARGLUVA (muraglitazar), the company's investigational oral medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The FDA requested additional information from ongoing clinical trials to more fully address the cardiovascular safety profile of muraglitazar. Yesterday, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced that the company and its partner, Merck & Co., Inc., have determined that to receive regulatory approval and to achieve commercial success, additional studies may be required because the ongoing trials were not designed to answer questions raised by the FDA. The additional studies could take approximately five years to complete. Bristol-Myers Squibb also announced yesterday that it agreed to begin discussions with Merck to terminate the companies' collaborative agreement. Bristol-Myers Squibb will continue discussions with the FDA and will consider a range of options including conducting additional studies or terminating further development of muraglitazar.
 
Looking ahead to December, Bristol-Myers Squibb plans to present Phase II data on dasatinib, a SRC/ABL Kinase Inhibitor being investigated for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), at the American Society of Hematology (ASH) annual meeting. The company continues to expect a possible dasatinib filing in the next three months.
 
THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
 
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 31.2% and 20.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The higher effective tax rate was primarily driven by a $569 million pre-tax gain recognized on the sale of the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business and related assets in the third quarter of 2005.
 
SPECIFIED ITEMS
 
In the three months ending September 30, 2005 and 2004, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
 
 
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2004 included:
 
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
 
PHARMACEUTICALS
 
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 2% to $3.8 billion in the third quarter of 2005 compared to the same period last year.
 
U.S. pharmaceutical sales decreased 3% to $2.1 billion in the third quarter of 2005 compared to the same period last year, primarily due to the continued impact of exclusivity losses for PARAPLATIN and VIDEX EC, increased competition for PRAVACHOL, partially offset by the continued growth of PLAVIX, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX. In aggregate, estimated wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the third quarter were down from the end of the second quarter of 2005, by approximately one-tenth of a month to two-and-a-half weeks. Individually, estimated wholesaler inventory levels of major brands such as PLAVIX, PRAVACHOL and AVAPRO/AVALIDE decreased to approximately two weeks.
 
Also in the third quarter of 2005, the company negotiated amendments to its inventory management agreements with its three largest wholesalers, which together account for over 90% of U.S. pharmaceutical net sales. The amendments extended the original agreements through December 31, 2005 and established lower limits than the original agreements for inventory levels of company pharmaceutical products held by the wholesalers. The company is in discussions to extend the agreements for periods beyond 2005. Over the long-term, if extended on similar terms, the company should benefit from reduced sales volatility due to lower levels of fluctuating inventory build and work down in the wholesaler channel.
 
International pharmaceutical sales remained constant, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, at $1.7 billion for the third quarter of 2005 compared to the same period last year. The sales decrease excluding the favorable impact of foreign exchange was primarily due to a decline in TAXOL and PRAVACHOL sales resulting from increased generic competition, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ and ABILIFY, as well as growth of PLAVIX.
 
Pharmaceutical Growth Drivers
 
Worldwide sales of the products that the company views as current and future growth drivers increased to 47% of worldwide pharmaceutical sales in the third quarter of 2005, compared to 39% in the same period last year. U.S. sales of these growth drivers accounted for approximately 67% and 58% of total U.S. pharmaceutical sales in the third quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Pharmaceuticals
 
Pharmaceutical products other than those the company views as future growth drivers tend to be more mature products, many of which are subject to exclusivity losses.
 
 
 
 
 
NUTRITIONALS AND RELATED HEALTHCARE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb's Nutritionals and Related Healthcare segments posted combined third quarter 2005 revenues of $989 million compared to $930 million in the same period in 2004. The two segments continue to generate a significant portion of Bristol-Myers Squibb's revenues, contributing a combined 21% of third quarter 2005 sales.
 
Nutritionals
 
 
 
Related Healthcare
 
 
 
 
2005 EPS GUIDANCE
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb updated 2005 full year earnings guidance of fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to the middle of its previously disclosed $1.35 to $1.45 range, on an adjusted non-GAAP basis which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
 
The company adjusted its estimate of fully diluted earnings per share when adding back exclusions  such as milestone payments in connection with previously announced external development, cost of early debt retirement, litigation settlements (including related insurance recoveries for significant legal proceedings), the gain on sale of business and restructurings activities from
 
continuing operations  to $1.48 to $1.58, from $1.49 to $1.59. This guidance range excludes the impact of recognizing the remaining deferred income from the potential termination of the collaborative agreement with Merck.
 
Factors that may cause variation in the company's earnings estimates and other risks and uncertainties, are discussed in the company's "Statement on Cautionary Factors," below, and its Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the company's results of operations.
 
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 21 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the company's Form 10-K Annual Report for 2004.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of product lines, from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and similar charges; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, governmental regulations and legislation, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and litigation, including the outcome of the PLAVIX litigation in the U.S. and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 
There will be a conference call on October 28, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 719-457-2625. Materials related to the call will be available at the same Web site prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeffrey Schoenborn, 212-546-2846, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
 
 
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
GLUCOPHAGE, GLUCOPHAGE XR and GLUCOVANCE are registered trademarks of Merck Sante, S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany
 
 
 
 
The following tables set forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004. In addition, the tables include, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business (based on 2004 net sales), the amount of the U.S. Pharmaceutical business's net sales of the applicable product for each of the three months through September 30, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel at the end of each quarter.
 
 
The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of thirty-one days calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using data from third parties which data are a product of the third parties' own record-keeping processes and such third-party data also may reflect estimates.
 
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States.
 
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers as of March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer outmovement data over the most recent thirty-one day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


