FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050913164532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On September 13, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors elected Louis J. Freeh to its Board of Directors. His election is effective September 13, 2005. Mr. Freeh will stand for election by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2006. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to twelve in connection with the election. Mr. Freeh was not elected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other persons. A copy of the press release announcing his election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On September 13, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company amended several sections of its Bylaws effective as of September 13, 2005. The changes to the Bylaws include: (1) revising the advance notice requirements for a stockholder to bring a nomination or other business before the annual meeting to (a) require a representation as to whether the stockholder intends to deliver a proxy statement or solicit proxies and (b) provide that if the stockholder, or a representative of the stockholder, fails to attend the meeting, such stockholder's nomination will be disregarded and such stockholder's business shall not be transacted, (2) permitting the use of electronic transmissions to provide notice of meetings, (3) permitting stockholders and directors to consent to action by means of electronic transmission, (4) permitting meetings of stockholders by remote communication, (5) replacing references to the "number of shares" with the concept of "voting power" for determinations of quorum and the vote required for stockholder action, (6) setting forth provisions relating to the conduct of stockholder meetings, (7) deleting the reference to the number of directors, which number will be fixed by the Board of Directors from time to time, (8) establishing a quorum of directors at the majority of the number of directors, (9) permitting the members of any committee to appoint members of the Board of Directors to the committee to replace an absent or disqualified member of such committee, and (10) replacing references to "share" and "shareholder" with "stock" and "stockholder."
 
The summary of changes to the Bylaws set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 3b and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3b
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK (September 13, 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Louis J. Freeh, Vice Chairman of MBNA America Bank, N.A., to the Board. His appointment is effective today.
 
Mr. Freeh, 55, has served as Vice Chairman of MBNA, a Fortune 200 company, since September 2001. He is also the General Counsel for the Bank and MBNA Corporation, Corporate Secretary and Ethics Officer.
 
Prior to joining MBNA, Mr. Freeh enjoyed a long and distinguished career in public service and law enforcement, beginning as a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, where he held positions of increasing responsibility. He was later appointed a United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York by President George H.W. Bush and served in this role until he was confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Director of the FBI, having been nominated by President Bill Clinton, a position he held for approximately eight years before retiring to join MBNA.
 
Mr. Freeh graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Rutgers College, received a J.D. degree from Rutgers Law School and an LL.M degree in criminal law from New York University Law School. He is a member of the New York, New Jersey and District of Columbia bars.
 
"Louis's solid and broad background in business and government make him an outstanding addition to our Board," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
 
James D. Robinson III, chairman of Bristol-Myers Squibb added, "We all look forward to working with Louis and benefiting from his experience and wisdom."
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 


