FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20050602171814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 1, 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company issued a press release announcing that it has reached an agreement to settle the four lawsuits brought against it in New York State Supreme Court. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, June 1 , 2005)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) announced today that it has reached an agreement to settle the four lawsuits brought against it in New York State Supreme Court by plaintiffs who requested to be excluded from the settlement of In Re BMS Securities Litigation, Master File No. 02-CV-2251, which had been pending in the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of New York related to wholesaler inventory and other accounting matters, and the company's investment in and relationship with ImClone Systems Inc., and ImClone's product, ERBITUX (cetuximab). The District Court approved the final settlement of the securities class action on November 9, 2004 after a fairness hearing.
 
Under the settlement, the plaintiffs' claims will be terminated in exchange for a payment of $89 million which amount had previously been reserved in full by the company. As part of the settlement, the company made no admission of wrongdoing. As previously disclosed, the company has established an aggregate reserve of $140 million, which includes the $89 million settlement amount discussed above, for liabilities in relation to investigations and certain litigation arising out of wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting matters. The company expects in the second quarter to reserve an additional amount which will be material to the company's operating results, but not its financial condition, for the remaining matters.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 


