FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20060531170219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the first quarter of 2006 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at . This supplemental information has been revised to include net sales, months on hand, and estimated demand information for key products and growth drivers as of March 31, 2006 for the Company's International Pharmaceutical, Nutritionals and Other Health Care reporting segments. Net sales and months on hand information is also provided as of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005. The revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2006
 
Three months ended March 31, 2005
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for each of the six quarters ended December 31, 2004 through March 31, 2006.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of thirty-one days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the four quarters ended March 31, 2005, through December 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimus. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers at the end of each quarter divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent thirty-one day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
International Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care
Estimated End-User Demand
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key pharmaceutical products and growth drivers sold by the Company's International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company's major non-U.S. countries (based on 2005 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below, the percentage change in the Company's estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the month of March 2006 compared to the month of March 2005. The Company commenced collecting the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for these reporting segments with the March 2005 period. The Company believes the year-to-year comparison below provides a more meaningful comparison to changes in sales for the quarter than the quarter-to-prior quarter comparisons previously provided.
 
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
As previously disclosed, for the Company's Pharmaceuticals business outside of the United States, Nutritionals and Other Health Care business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units.
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the three quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimis. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand for these reporting segments. Where available, the Company relies on information provided by third parties to determine estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers and expected demand. For the reporting segments listed above, however, the Company has limited information on direct customer product level inventory, end-user consumption and direct customer out-movement data. Further, the quality of third party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new products or seasonal products, such historical end-user consumption or out-movement information may not be available or applicable. In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand.
As of March 31, 2006, BARACLUDE, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to stocking of the product in support of the recent launch in China.
As of March 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.4, 1.2 and 1.3 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing DAFALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of March 31, 2006, EFFERALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.2 months of inventory on hand, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing EFFERALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of March 31, 2006, MONOPRIL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to supply of the product in support of its inclusion in a government program in Russia.
As of March 31, 2006, PRAVACHOL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.5 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand is due primarily to an increase in orders from a significant direct customer in France. It is anticipated that the inventory levels for this customer will be worked down during the second and third quarters.
As of December 31, 2005, NUTRAMIGEN and PROSOBEE, infant nutritional products sold principally in the United States, each had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand at the end of December 2005 was due primarily to holiday stocking by retailers. The levels of inventory on hand of NUTRAMIGEN and PROSOBEE as of March 31, 2006 were approximately 1 month for each.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct customers including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties' data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties' data in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals business.
*Indicates brand names of products which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries. ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Inc.; AVAPRO, AVALIDE, and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis Corp.; and ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.


