FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20061130170622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the third quarter of 2006 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at . On October 30, 2006, the Company filed a Form 8-K/A furnishing revised supplemental information. This supplemental information has been further revised to include net sales, months on hand, and estimated demand information for key products and growth drivers as of September 30, 2006 for the Company's International Pharmaceutical, Nutritionals and Other Health Care reporting segments. Net sales and months on hand information is also provided as of June 30, 2006, September 30, 2005 and June 30, 2005. The further revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis in 2005 was 69.1%, and was 69.6% on a non-GAAP basis. See Gross Margin non comparable tab. Based on historical trends in the first three quarters of 2006 on a non-GAAP basis the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2006 to be 1.5% to 2.0% lower than 2005 non-GAAP level. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. For the first nine months of 2006, gross margin on a GAAP basis was 67.1%, which included specified items of $138 million and had a 1.0% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis in 2005 was 20.6%, and was 21.7% on a non-GAAP basis. See Tax Rate non comparable tab. Based on historical trends in the first three quarters of 2006 on a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2006 to be in the range of 22% to 24%. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. For the first nine months of 2006, effective tax rate on a GAAP basis was 26.6%, which included specified items of $86 million, and had a 2.5% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2006 would include specified items that may occur and impact fourth quarter results. These specified items could include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals and restructuring activities. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Third Quarter And First Nine Months Of 2006, October 26, 2006, including "2006 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K on August 31, 2006, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
U.S. Pharmaceuticals
Estimated End-User Demand
The following tables set forth for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, for the three months ended September 30, 2006 compared to the same periods in the prior year: (a) changes in reported U.S. net sales for the period; (b) estimated total U.S. prescription growth for the retail and mail order channels and the estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product, calculated by the Company based on NPA data provided by IMS; and (c) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail order channels and the estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product, calculated by the Company based on Next-Generation Prescription Services (NGPS) data provided by IMS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has historically reported estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on NPA data, which IMS makes available to the public on a subscription basis, and a simple average of the estimated number of prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company began disclosing estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on both NPA and NGPS data. NGPS data is collected by IMS under a new, revised methodology and has been released by IMS on a limited basis through a pilot program. IMS has announced it expects to make NGPS data available to the public on a subscription basis in 2007. The Company believes that the NGPS data provided by IMS provides a superior estimate of prescription data for the Company's products in the retail and mail order channels. The Company has calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on NGPS data on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that mail order prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied compared with retail prescriptions. The Company believes that calculation of the estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on the NGPS data and the weighted-average approach with respect to the retail and mail order channels provides a superior estimate of total prescription demand. The Company now uses this methodology for its internal demand forecasts.
The estimated prescription change data and estimated therapeutic category share provided above only include information from the retail and mail order channels and do not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long-term care, among others. The data provided by IMS are a product of IMS' own record-keeping processes and are themselves estimates based on sampling procedures, subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling. In addition, the NGPS data are part of a pilot program that is still being refined by IMS.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of prescription change amounts, therapeutic category share percentages and ultimate patient/consumer demand through review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties' data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties' data used in such calculations.
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
The following tables set forth for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
At September 30, 2006 and June 30, 2006 the estimated value of CEFZIL inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $11.8 million and $12.4 million, respectively. The demand for CEFZIL decreased significantly in 2006 due to generic competition that began in the U.S. in December 2005. The Company continues to monitor CEFZIL sales with the objective to work down wholesaler inventory levels to one month on hand or less.
SPRYCEL was launched in the U.S. in July 2006. Consistent with standard practice at the time of a new product launch, the Company's U.S. wholesalers built inventories of the product to meet expected demand and at September 30, 2006, the estimated value of SPRYCEL inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $0.6 million. The Company expects to work down the inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel in the fourth quarter of 2006.
The estimated value of TEQUIN inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand was de minimis at September 30, 2006 and was approximately $1.4 million at June 30, 2006. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company made the decision to discontinue commercialization of TEQUIN for commercial reasons. The Company stopped shipping product to U.S. wholesalers in June 2006 and established an accrual for the return of TEQUIN inventory. In early July 2006, the Company notified the U.S. wholesaler and retail distribution channels that it would allow for return of the product regardless of expiry dates. The Company expects most of the TEQUIN inventory in all U.S. channels to be returned by the fourth quarter of 2006.
BARACLUDE was launched in the U.S. in April 2005. In anticipation of the launch, the Company's U.S. wholesalers built inventories of the product to meet expected demand and at September 30, 2005 and June 30, 2005, BARACLUDE inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand. The estimated value of BARACLUDE inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel had been worked down to less than one month on hand in subsequent quarters.
At September 30, 2005, the estimated value of VIDEX/VIDEX EC inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $0.2 million. As a result of generic competition in the U.S. commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004, demand for VIDEX/VIDEX EC decreased significantly. The estimated value of VIDEX/VIDEX EC inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel had been worked down to one month on hand in subsequent quarters.
 
In October 2004, the U.S. pediatric exclusivity period for PARAPLATIN (carboplatin) expired. The resulting entry of multiple generic competitors for PARAPLATIN led to a significant decrease in demand for PARAPLATIN, which in turn led to the months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeding one month on hand at September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005. The estimated value of PARAPLATIN inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over one month on hand was approximately $0.6 million at September 30, 2006, $1.4 million at June 30, 2006 and $0.7 million at September 30, 2005. The Company no longer produces PARAPLATIN for the U.S. market and will continue to monitor PARAPLATIN wholesaler inventory levels until they have been depleted.
At September 30, 2006, the estimated value of PLAVIX* inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $41.4 million due to the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate in August 2006. Because of the large quantities of generic clopidogrel bisulfate believed to have been shipped into the distribution channels before the preliminary injunction was granted ordering the halt of sales of generic clopidogrel bisulfate in late August 2006, demand for branded PLAVIX* has decreased precipitously. Demand for PLAVIX* is expected to increase over the next months as the generic clopidogrel bisulfate inventory in all channels are depleted. As demand for PLAVIX* increases, wholesale inventory levels are expected to decline below one month on hand.
For all products other than ERBITUX*, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Company's three largest wholesaler customers provide the Company with weekly information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products. These three wholesalers accounted for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products in the third quarter of 2006. The inventory information received from these wholesalers excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company uses the information provided by these three wholesalers as of the Friday closest to quarter end to calculate the amount of inventory on hand for these wholesalers at the applicable quarter end. This amount is then increased by the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers as of the applicable Friday, which have not been reflected in the weekly data provided by the wholesalers. Under the Company's revenue recognition policy, sales are recorded when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, which in the U.S. Pharmaceutical business is generally when product is shipped. In such cases, goods in transit to a wholesaler are owned by the applicable wholesaler and, accordingly, are reflected in the calculation of inventories in the wholesaler distribution channel. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders as of the applicable Friday and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders. The Company determines the out-movement of a product from these wholesalers over a period of 31 days by using the most recent four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers and extrapolating such amount to a 31 day basis. The Company estimates inventory levels on hand and out-movements for its U.S. Pharmaceutical business' wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers for each product based on the assumption that such amounts bear the same relationship to the three largest wholesalers' inventory levels and out-movements for such product as the percentage of aggregate sales for all products to these other wholesalers in the applicable quarter bears to aggregate sales
 
for all products to the Company's three largest wholesalers in such quarter. Finally, the Company considers whether any adjustments are necessary to these extrapolated amounts based on such factors as historical sales of individual products made to such other wholesalers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and patient demand. In addition, the Company receives inventory information from these other wholesalers on a selective basis for certain key products.
The Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business through the IMAs discussed above, has arrangements with substantially all of its direct wholesaler customers and require those wholesalers to maintain inventory at levels that are no more than one month of their demand.
In response to the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate on August 8, 2006 , the Company offered certain U.S. managed care organizations incremental rebates from wholesaler list price for PLAVIX* under certain conditions through March 31, 2007. A small number of managed care organizations accepted the offer. All other offers were rejected, or were terminated prior to or at the time of issuance of the preliminary injunction on August 31, 2006, and no further such offers have been made since. The Company also provided a temporary price reduction below the federal supply schedule for PLAVIX* to the Veterans Administration for a limited period in August and September 2006. Primarily as a result of very limited participation in the rebate offer, the Company estimates that the impact of the two programs on PLAVIX* net sales in the third quarter was de minimis.
ORENCIA was launched in February 2006. From launch through the second quarter, the Company distributed ORENCIA through an exclusive distribution arrangement with a single distributor. Following approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) that allows a third party to manufacture ORENCIA at an additional site, that arrangement recently terminated and the Company expanded its distribution network for ORENCIA to multiple distributors.
To help maintain the product quality of the Company's biologic oncology product, ERBITUX*, the product was previously shipped only to end-users and not to other intermediaries (such as wholesalers) to hold for later sales. During 2004 and through May 2005, one of the Company's wholesalers provided warehousing, packing and shipping services for ERBITUX*. Such wholesaler held ERBITUX* inventory on consignment and, under the Company's revenue recognition policy, the Company recognized revenue when such inventory was shipped by the wholesaler to the end-user. Upon the divestiture of OTN in May 2005, the Company discontinued the consignment arrangement with the wholesaler and thereafter did not have ERBITUX* consignment inventory. Following the divestiture, the Company sold ERBITUX* to intermediaries (such as specialty oncology distributors) and shipped ERBITUX* directly to the end-users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter 2006, the Company expanded its distribution model to one of the Company's wholesalers who then held ERBITUX* inventory at September 30, 2006. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy. The above estimate of months on hand for the three months ended September 30, 2006 was calculated by dividing the inventories of ERBITUX* held by the wholesaler for its own account as reported by the wholesaler as of the end of the quarter by the Company's net sales for the last calendar month of the quarter. The inventory levels reported by the wholesaler are a product of the wholesaler's own record-keeping process.
As previously disclosed, for the Company's Pharmaceuticals business outside of the United States, Nutritionals and Other Health Care business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units. As such, the information required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals business for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 is not available prior to the filing of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The Company will disclose this information on its website and furnish it on Form 8-K approximately 60 days after the end of the third quarter and in the Company's Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2006.
 
International Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care
Estimated End-User Demand
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key pharmaceutical products and growth drivers sold by the Company's International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company's major non-U.S. countries (based on 2005 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below, the percentage change in the Company's estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the month of September 2006 compared to the month of September 2005. The Company commenced collecting the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for these reporting segments with the March 2005 period. The Company believes the year-to-year comparison below provides a more meaningful comparison to changes in sales for the quarter than the quarter-to-prior quarter comparisons previously provided.
 
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
As previously disclosed, for the Company's Pharmaceuticals business outside of the United States, Nutritionals and Other Health Care business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units.
 
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimis. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
 
The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand for these reporting segments. Where available, the Company relies on information provided by third parties to determine estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers and expected demand. For the reporting segments listed above, however, the Company has limited information on direct customer product level inventory, end-user consumption and direct customer out-movement data. Further, the quality of third party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new products or seasonal products, such historical end-user consumption or out-movement information may not be available or applicable. In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand.
As of September 30, 2006, BMS has entered into exclusive distributorship arrangements for certain products in several Eastern and Central European markets.
As of September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2005, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1months, 1.1 months, and 1.3 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing DAFALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of September 30, 2005, EFFERALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing EFFERALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of June 30, 2006, MONOPRIL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to supply of the product in support of its inclusion in a government program in Russia.
As of June 30, 2006, PRAVACHOL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.4 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand is due primarily to an increase in orders from a significant direct customer in France. The Company has worked down the inventory levels for this customer during the third quarter.
As of September 30, 2006, REYATAZ, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.1 months on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand is due primarily to government purchasing patterns in Brazil.
As of September 30, 2006 and June 30, 2006, VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.4 months and 1.2 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand is due primarily to government purchasing patterns in Brazil. The Company is contractually obligated to provide VIDEX/VIDEX EC to the Brazilian government upon placement of an order for product by the government,. Under the terms of the contract, the Company has no control over the inventory levels relating to such orders. The Company, however, expects that the inventory levels for VIDEX/VIDEX EC will be worked down.
As of September 30, 2005, NUTRAMIGEN, an infant nutritional product, had approximately 1.1 months on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory was due to the impact of retailers holding higher levels of inventory in response to Hurricane Katrina. The Company has worked down the wholesaler inventory levels.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct customers including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties' data used in such
 
calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties' data in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals business.
 
 


