FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20060427092245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, April 27, 2006)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2006 and reaffirmed earnings guidance for the full year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted first quarter 2006 net sales from continuing operations of $4.7 billion, an increase of 3%, despite a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact. The company reported first quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations of $714 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $538 million, or $0.27 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, first quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations was $637 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, compared to $670 million, or $0.34 per diluted share for the same period in 2005.
"This was another solid quarter for Bristol-Myers Squibb, as we continued to grow our key products, execute our strategy and advance our pipeline," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer,
Bristol-Myers Squibb. "All of our growth drivers  PLAVIX, AVAPRO/AVALIDE, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX  delivered double-digit sales increases. During the quarter, we launched ORENCIA, our first internally discovered and developed biologic, and the product is tracking above our expectations. We also demonstrated our commitment to biologics as an essential component of our future growth through our Board of Directors' approval of a $660 million capital expenditure for the construction of a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility. We are ramping up our efforts announced last December to reduce our cost base, which we expect will deliver a minimum of $500 million in additional savings in 2007 and an incremental $100 million in 2008, as we prepare the company for an expected period of sustained earnings growth over several years, beginning in 2007."
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
In February, Bristol-Myers Squibb launched ORENCIA, its first internally discovered and developed biologic agent, indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inducing major clinical response, slowing the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more currently available treatments, such as methotrexate or anti-TNF therapy. More than two million people in the United States suffer from RA, and roughly 15% to 25% of the 250,000 patients in the U.S. treated annually with anti-TNF therapy experience treatment failures and/or inadequate responses to treatment. In January, the company submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application to the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the licensure of a third party manufacturing facility to support increased production capacity for ORENCIA.
In February, the company also launched BARACLUDE , its treatment for hepatitis B, in China. China is classified by the World Health Organization as a high-prevalence hepatitis B region. It is estimated that 120 to 130 million people are chronically infected with the hepatitis B virus in China.
On March 1, the FDA approved ERBITUX , which is co-promoted by Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. ERBITUX  also approved to treat patients with metastatic colorectal cancer  is the first FDA approved therapy for head and neck cancer patients in more than 30 years. As a result of the FDA approval, the company paid a $250 million milestone payment to ImClone in the first quarter of 2006.
 
In March, the FDA accepted, for filing and review, the New Drug Application (NDA) for the investigational compound dasatinib. The NDA seeks approval of dasatinib to treat chronic myelogenous leukemia in adult patients with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. The dasatinib NDA has been granted a priority review, based on which FDA action on the NDA is expected by the end of the second quarter.
Earlier this month, the company launched EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system) in the U.S. EMSAM is the first transdermal patch for the delivery of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. EMSAM was developed by Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories, Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Bristol-Myers Squibb has obtained exclusive distribution rights to commercialize EMSAM in the U.S. and Canada and markets EMSAM through its existing neuroscience sales force.
On April 27, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, Inc. announced the submission of an NDA to the FDA for approval of a product that combines the company's anti-HIV medication SUSTIVA (efavirenz), and Gilead's TRUVADA (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), in a once-daily single tablet regimen. If approved by the FDA, the new single tablet regimen would be the first and only product that contains a complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy regimen in a single once-daily tablet, intended for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults as a complete regimen or in combination with other antiretrovirals.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
In March, the company announced plans to invest $660 million in the construction of a large-scale, expandable, multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility at one of several U.S. locations currently under evaluation. The modular design of the facility will accommodate future expansion. The company also announced in March that it will invest $200 million to expand the company's Manati, Puerto Rico facility, to accommodate filling and finishing of the company's sterile products and biologic compounds, including ORENCIA and other investigational compounds.
 
As previously disclosed, in March 2006, the company and sanofi-aventis announced they have reached an agreement with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. to settle the PLAVIX patent infringement lawsuit that had been pending between the parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The settlement is subject to certain conditions, including antitrust review and clearance by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. There is a significant risk the required antitrust clearance will not be obtained.
FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 27.5% in first quarter of 2006 compared to 28.9% in the first quarter of 2005. The lower effective tax rate is attributable to higher estimated foreign tax credits and lower estimated tax contingency reserves, partially offset by the expiration of the federal research and development tax credit as of December 31, 2005.
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
The pre-tax specified items before minority interest in 2006 included:
 
 
 
 
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
 
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales increased 3% to $3.7 billion in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales increased 17% to $2.1 billion in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, primarily due to the continued volume growth of PLAVIX, AVAPRO/AVALIDE, REYATAZ, ERBITUX and ABILIFY, and higher average net selling prices, partially offset by the continued decline of mature products. The sales increase was not affected by changes in estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
International pharmaceutical sales decreased 10%, including a 5% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $1.6 billion for the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The sales decrease was primarily due to a decline in TAXOL and PRAVACHOL sales resulting from increased generic competition in Europe, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ and ABILIFY. The company's reported international sales do not include sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continue to show growth in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005.
Pharmaceutical Growth Drivers
Worldwide sales of the products that the company views as current and future growth drivers increased to 50% of worldwide pharmaceutical sales in the first quarter of 2006, compared to 40% in the same period in 2005. U.S. sales of these growth drivers accounted for approximately 72% and 63% of total U.S. pharmaceutical sales in the first quarter of 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceutical products other than those the company views as current and future growth drivers are generally more mature products.
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined first quarter 2006 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 2% to $976 million compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding a 7% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the U.S. and Canadian consumer medicines business in the third quarter of 2005, Health Care Group
 
sales increased 9% in the first quarter of 2006. The Health Care Group continues to generate a significant portion of the company's revenues, contributing over 20% of first quarter 2006 sales.
Nutritionals
 
Other Health Care
 
 
2006 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb reaffirms its 2006 full year earnings guidance of fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $1.15 and $1.25 on an adjusted non-GAAP basis, which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
 
The company also reaffirms its 2006 fully-diluted earnings per share range to be between $1.15 and $1.25, when adding back specified items. These specified items are expected to have no net impact on the company's estimated earnings guidance for 2006. Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website. This information does not include other items, which may occur during the year.
Anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2006 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the company's growth drivers and potential new products. The gross margin is expected to stabilize as the relatively high margins realized on the sale of the growth drivers and certain new products more or less offset lost margins from older products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity. Earnings will be adversely affected by the company's investments to develop and support the introduction of new products, the impact from sale of DOVONEX, the impact from the adoption of stock option expensing under new accounting guidelines and the development of additional new compounds.
As previously disclosed, the company has experienced substantial revenue losses due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection for certain of its products. The company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in 2006, representing continuing declines in revenues from products that lost market exclusivity in previous years, as well as declines in revenues of certain additional products that have lost or will lose market exclusivity. For 2006, the company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2005 levels for products that have lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2004, 2005 or 2006, primarily PRAVACHOL, TAXOL and CEFZIL. The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
The company's expectations for future sales growth include increases in sales of PLAVIX, which had net sales of $3.8 billion for 2005, and is currently the company's largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. As previously disclosed, the Apotex litigation has been suspended pending possible finalization of the previously announced proposed settlement among the parties. The proposed settlement is subject to certain conditions, including antitrust review and clearance by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. There is a significant risk that
 
required antitrust clearance will not be obtained. In such event, the proposed settlement would be terminated, and the litigation would be reinstated. If the litigation were reinstated, sanofi-aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb intend vigorously to pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX are ongoing in Canada. There are no enforcement proceedings outside of the U.S. and Canada. The company continues to believe that the U. S. and Canadian patents are valid and infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX.
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's expectations for 2006 described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the company's results of operations.
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 20 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the company's Form 10-K Annual Report for 2005.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; and significant tax events, including the repatriation of special dividends pursuant to the AJCA. This information is
 
intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and litigation, including the outcome of the PLAVIX litigation in the U.S. and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on April 27, 2006 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4901. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of Imclone Systems Incorporated
EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
 
 
 
The following table set forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2005. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended March 31, 2006
 
Three months ended March 31, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2006
 
Three months ended March 31, 2005
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for each of the six quarters ended December 31, 2004 through March 31, 2006.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of thirty-one days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of thirty-one days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the four quarters ended March 31, 2005, through December 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimus. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers at the end of each quarter divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent thirty-one day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


