FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20061030120541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the third quarter of 2006 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at www.bms.com. This supplemental information has been revised to include additional supplemental information. The revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis in 2005 was 69.1%, and was 69.6% on a non-GAAP basis. See Gross Margin non comparable tab. Based on historical trends in the first three quarters of 2006 on a non-GAAP basis the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2006 to be 1.5% to 2.0% lower than 2005 non-GAAP level. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. For the first nine months of 2006, gross margin on a GAAP basis was 67.1%, which included specified items of $138 million and had a 1.0% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis in 2005 was 20.6%, and was 21.7% on a non-GAAP basis. See Tax Rate non comparable tab. Based on historical trends in the first three quarters of 2006 on a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2006 to be in the range of 22% to 24%. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. For the first nine months of 2006, effective tax rate on a GAAP basis was 26.6%, which included specified items of $86 million, and had a 2.5% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2006 would include specified items that may occur and impact fourth quarter results. These specified items could include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals and restructuring activities. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Third Quarter And First Nine Months Of 2006, October 26, 2006, including "2006 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K on August 31, 2006, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


