FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20060727093828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, July 27, 2006)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2006 and reaffirmed earnings guidance for the full year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted second quarter 2006 net sales from continuing operations of $4.9 billion. The company reported second quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations of $667 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $991 million, or $0.50 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, second quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations were $680 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, compared to $933 million, or $0.47 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. The decrease in net earnings in 2006 as compared to 2005 is mainly due to the significantly lower tax rate in 2005 resulting from the benefits realized from the resolution of a tax audit
and a one time American Jobs Creation Act related tax adjustment, and continued increased investment in 2006 for pharmaceutical research and development.
"Since the beginning of the year, Bristol-Myers Squibb has launched four important pharmaceutical products. These include novel treatments for cancer and rheumatoid arthritis that were discovered in our own labs, one in-licensed therapy for serious depression in adults, and a once-daily single tablet regimen for HIV-1 that contains our SUSTIVA product along with two antiretrovirals from Gilead Sciences," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The strong productivity of our pipeline and continued solid double-digit growth in sales of our key products PLAVIX, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and ERBITUX, as well as the solid prospects for our recently approved products, ORENCIA, BARACLUDE and SPRYCEL, are all preparing the company to enter a period of sustained sales and earnings growth over several years, beginning in 2007. We intend to sustain this momentum through continued investment in R&D and new product launches, as we begin to put in place specific plans to realize a minimum of $600 million in additional annual cost savings by 2008."
For the six months ended June 30, 2006, net sales from continuing operations increased 1%, despite a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $9.5 billion compared to the first six months of 2005. Under GAAP, net earnings from continuing operations in the first six months of 2006 were $1.4 billion, or $0.70 per diluted share, compared to $1.5 billion, or $0.78 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.3 billion, or $0.67 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2006, compared to $1.6 billion, or $0.81 per diluted share for the same period last year.
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
In May, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) that permits a third party to manufacture ORENCIA (abatacept) at an additional facility. ORENCIA is a novel biologic agent for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that was launched in the U.S. in February. The facility will support increased production capacity necessary to meet expected long-term demand for ORENCIA. As a result, the company expanded from a single-source distribution system, which will enable physicians and healthcare providers to more easily obtain ORENCIA through their normal supply channels. Initial market reaction to ORENCIA has been
 
positive, and the company expects to see continued growth as physicians, healthcare professionals and patients become more familiar with ORENCIA.
On June 28, the FDA granted accelerated approval of SPRYCEL (dasatinib), an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases, for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC (imatinib mesylate). The FDA also granted approval of SPRYCEL for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. Ph+ALL is a rapidly progressive cancer of the blood and bone marrow, usually occurring in adults.
In June, the company also received approval from the European Commission for BARACLUDE for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection. BARACLUDE was also approved in Japan in July. BARACLUDE is currently approved in more than 40 countries worldwide, including the United States and China.
In June, the company announced plans to locate its new large-scale, expandable, multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts, subject to final agreement between the company and the State. Construction is expected to begin later this year, and the facility is projected to be operationally complete in 2009. Commercial production of biologic compounds is anticipated to begin in 2011.
On July 12, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, Inc. announced FDA approval of ATRIPLA (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 300 mg / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 200 mg) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. ATRIPLA is the first-ever once-daily single tablet three drug regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. The product combines SUSTIVA (efavirenz), manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb, and TRUVADA (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), manufactured by Gilead Sciences.
 
SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 23.1%
and -1.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
The higher effective tax rate was primarily driven by a net tax benefit in 2005 resulting from the resolution of certain tax contingencies on the completion of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and an adjustment to the tax provision for the special one-time repatriation of foreign earnings.
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
The pre-tax specified items in 2006 included:
 
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 1% to $3.9 billion in the second quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales increased 5% to $2.2 billion in the second quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, primarily due to the continued growth of PLAVIX, AVAPRO/AVALIDE, ERBITUX, ABILIFY, REYATAZ and SUSTIVA, and sales of new products EMSAM and ORENCIA, partially offset by the loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL. In aggregate, estimated
 
wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the second quarter remained stable at slightly over two weeks.
International pharmaceutical sales decreased 8% to $1.7 billion for the second quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The sales decrease was mainly due to a decline in PRAVACHOL and TAXOL sales resulting from increased generic competition in Europe, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ and ABILIFY. The company's reported international sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continue to show growth in the second quarter of 2006.
Pharmaceutical Growth Drivers
Worldwide sales of the products that the company views as current and future growth drivers increased to 56% of worldwide pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter of 2006, compared to 45% in the same period in 2005. U.S. sales of these growth drivers accounted for approximately 78% and 66% of total U.S. pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter of 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
Other Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceutical products other than those the company views as current and future growth drivers are generally more mature products.
 
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined second quarter 2006 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 1% to $1,012 million compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding a 6% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the U.S. and Canadian consumer medicines business in the third quarter of 2005, Health Care Group sales increased 7% in the second quarter of 2006.
Nutritionals
 
 
Other Health Care
 
 
2006 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb reaffirms its 2006 full year earnings guidance of fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $1.15 and $1.25 on an adjusted non-GAAP basis, which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
The company also reaffirms its 2006 fully-diluted earnings per share range to be between $1.15 and $1.25, when adding back specified items. These specified items are expected to have no net impact on the company's estimated earnings guidance for 2006. Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website. This information does not include other specified items that may occur during the rest of the year.
Anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2006 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in sales of the company's growth drivers and new products. The gross margin is expected to stabilize as the relatively high margins realized on the sale of the growth drivers and certain new products more or less offset lost margins from older products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity. Earnings will be adversely affected by investment in the development of additional new compounds, investments to develop and support the introduction of new products, the impact from the adoption of stock option expensing under the new accounting standard and the impact on future earnings from the sale of DOVONEX.
 
As previously disclosed, the company has experienced substantial revenue losses due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection for certain of its products. The company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in 2006, representing continuing declines in revenues from products that lost market exclusivity in previous years, as well as declines in revenues of certain additional products that have lost market exclusivity this year. For 2006, the company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2005 levels for products that have lost exclusivity protection in 2004, 2005 or 2006, primarily PRAVACHOL, TAXOL and CEFZIL. The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
The company's expectations for future sales growth include increases in sales of PLAVIX, which had net sales of $3.8 billion for 2005, and is currently the company's largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. As previously disclosed, the Apotex litigation has been suspended pending possible finalization of the previously announced proposed settlement among the parties. The proposed settlement is subject to certain conditions, including antitrust review and clearance by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state attorneys general. In the response to concerns raised by the FTC and state attorneys general to that proposed settlement agreement, the company, sanofi-aventis and Apotex have amended the agreement. The modified agreement remains under review by the FTC and the state attorneys general. There is no assurance that the terms of the modified agreement will address all the concerns of the FTC or the state attorneys general. There remains significant risk that antitrust clearance will not be obtained. In such event, the proposed settlement would be terminated, and the litigation would be reinstated. If the litigation were reinstated, sanofi-aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX. Additional patent proceedings involving PLAVIX are ongoing in the United States and in less significant markets for the product. The company continues to believe that the PLAVIX patents are valid and infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of these litigations, or the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX.
 
The company learned yesterday that the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the Apotex litigation described above.
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations, including the matters described above. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's expectations for 2006 described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the company's results of operations.
For additional discussion of legal matters including PLAVIX patent litigation, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 17 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" in the company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2006.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; and significant tax events, including the repatriation of special dividends pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and litigation, including the outcome of the PLAVIX litigation in the U.S., the ability to realize projected cost savings by 2008 discussed in this press release and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on July 27, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-312-1294. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
GLEEVEC is a trademark of Novartis, Inc.
TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2005. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended June 30, 2006
 
Three months ended June 30, 2005
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2006
 
Six months ended June 30, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales does not tie to Total Company sales.
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales does not tie to Total Company sales.
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2006
 
Three months ended June 30, 2005
 
Six months ended June 30, 2006
 
Six months ended June 30, 2006
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and March 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K/A on May 31, 2006, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the three quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


