FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20061026100225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 26, 2006)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and raised earnings guidance for the full year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted third quarter 2006 net sales from continuing operations of $4.2 billion, compared with $4.8 billion for the same period in 2005. The company reported third quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations of $338 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $964 million, or $0.49 per diluted share for the same period in 2005, which included a significant one-time gain on the sale of the Consumer Medicines business. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, third quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations were $438 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, compared to $602 million, or $0.31 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. The decrease in non-GAAP net earnings
in 2006 as compared to 2005 is mainly due to the impact of an at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate, the loss of patent exclusivity on PRAVACHOL in major markets and increased investments behind the development of new products.
"After assuming the CEO role on an interim basis several weeks ago, I've been focused on our company's strategy, growth prospects and people. I, along with the rest of our Board, believe that Bristol-Myers Squibb has a sound strategy in place to maximize shareholder value. We have one of the best pipelines in the industry and the right team in place to execute our strategy," said Jim Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "Clearly, our third quarter overall performance was negatively impacted by generic competition to PLAVIX and the loss of exclusivity on PRAVACHOL earlier this year. However, our other major products continue to demonstrate robust, double-digit sales growth and the launches of our new products, SPRYCEL, ORENCIA and BARACLUDE are on track."
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, net sales from continuing operations decreased 3%, to $13.7 billion compared to the first nine months of 2005. Net earnings from continuing operations in the first nine months of 2006 on a GAAP basis were $1.7 billion, or $0.88 per diluted share, compared to $2.5 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.8 billion, or $0.89 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, compared to $2.2 billion, or $1.12 per diluted share for the same period last year.
PLAVIX
The company has previously disclosed certain developments in the pending PLAVIX patent litigation with Apotex Corp. and Apotex Inc. (Apotex) and the announcement on August 8, 2006 by Apotex that it had launched a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with PLAVIX. On August 31, 2006, a federal court granted a preliminary injunction enjoining further sales of Apotex's generic product.
The at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate had a significant adverse effect on sales in the third quarter, which the company estimates to be in the range of $525 million to $600 million. In the
 
first, second and third quarters of 2006, U.S. net sales for PLAVIX were $850 million, $988 million and $474 million, respectively. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand for clopidogrel bisulfate (branded and generic) increased by 14% in the third quarter of 2006 compared to 2005, while estimated total U.S. prescription demand for branded PLAVIX decreased by 32% in the same period. As a result of the lower demand for branded PLAVIX, the number of months of PLAVIX inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel increased to 1.5 months on hand at September 30, 2006.
The company expects that generic clopidogrel bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels will continue to satisfy a significant majority of prescription demand for the remainder of 2006. In addition, sales of generic clopidogrel bisulfate are expected to have a residual impact on PLAVIX sales into 2007 - the amount and duration of which will depend on the amount of generic product that Apotex sold into the distribution channels, and the rate at which such product will continue to satisfy overall prescription demand. The company cannot reliably estimate this impact at this point in time.
For information regarding PLAVIX litigation and related matters, please see the section titled "PLAVIX LITIGATION" below.
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
On September 21, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) recommended a marketing authorization for SPRYCEL
(dasatinib) for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC (imatinib mesylate) or Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. The company received approval for SPRYCEL
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2006.
In September, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, Inc. submitted ATRIPLA
(efavirenz 600 mg / emtricitabine 200 mg / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) for regulatory approval in Canada. In addition, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead Sciences, Inc. and Merck & Co., Inc. submitted a Marketing Authorization Application for ATRIPLA
to the EMEA in October. ATRIPLA
, the first-ever once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals, received approval from the FDA in July 2006.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. received approval from the FDA in September and the EMEA in October for ABILIFY Injection, the first ready-to-use single-dose vial of an atypical antipsychotic to control agitation in adults with schizophrenia and bipolar mania.
On October 20, Bristol-Myers Squibb received FDA approval of a new once-daily 300 mg single capsule formulation of REYATAZ for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults as part of combination therapy, which can replace two REYATAZ 150 mg capsules in appropriate patients. Bristol-Myers Squibb now has one-pill, once-daily HIV medicine options available in three drug classes as part of combination therapy.
The company launched BARACLUDE for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in several new markets during the third quarter, including Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Japan. BARACLUDE is currently approved in more than 50 countries worldwide, including the U.S. and China.
In August, Bristol-Myers Squibb and sanofi-aventis received approval from both the FDA and the EMEA for an additional indication for PLAVIX (clopidogrel bisulfate) to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of re-infarction, stroke or death in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). An estimated 300,000 Americans suffer STEMI events each year, and survivors are at high risk of suffering another atherothrombotic event. PLAVIX has now received indications to reduce the risk of atherothrombotic events across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), which affects more than 2.8 million people in the U.S. and Europe. The STEMI indication was based on large-scale clinical trials involving more than 40,000 patients, highlighting the importance of intellectual property protection, which is essential to explore the full potential of medicines.
In October, the company moved its investigational anti-thrombosis compound apixaban into Phase III development. Apixaban is an oral direct factor Xa inhibitor. Apixaban has potential prophylactic and therapeutic value in a broad range of thrombotic conditions, including prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolism (including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism),
 
prevention of stroke associated with atrial fibrillation (AF), and prevention of the arterial thromboembolic events associated with ACS. AF is the most common heart beat abnormality (arrhythmia) in the U.S., with more than 2 million people diagnosed and living with this disorder  a number which is expected to double in the next 20 years. An estimated one in four people will be diagnosed with AF during their lifetime and AF is responsible for one out of every six strokes.
THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 31.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2006, compared with 31.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2005.
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
The pre-tax specified items in 2006 included:
 
 
 
 
In addition, a charge of $39 million was recognized to reflect a change in estimate for taxes on a prior year item.
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" and Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 17%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3.2 billion in the third quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. Worldwide sales of the products that the company views as growth drivers* decreased by 8% in the third quarter of 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding all PLAVIX sales, worldwide sales of the other growth drivers* increased by 26% as compared to the same period in 2005.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales decreased 22% to $1.6 billion in the third quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, primarily due to the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate in August 2006 and loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL offset by continued growth of ERBITUX, ABILIFY, the SUSTIVA franchise, REYATAZ and AVAPRO/AVALIDE and sales of new products ORENCIABARACLUDE and SPRYCEL In aggregate, estimated U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the third quarter increased to approximately three weeks as compared to slightly over two weeks at the end of the second quarter, primarily due to the lower demand for PLAVIX resulting from the impact of the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate.
,
.
International pharmaceutical sales decreased 9%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The decrease
 
was mainly due to a decline in PRAVACHOL and TAXOL resulting from increased generic competition in Europe, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ, ABILIFY and BARACLUDE. The company's reported international sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continued to show growth in the third quarter of 2006.
Product Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined third quarter 2006 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 1% to $1.0 billion compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding a 5% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business in the third quarter of 2005, Health Care Group sales increased 6% in the third quarter of 2006.
Nutritionals
Worldwide Nutritional sales increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $582 million in the third quarter of 2006 from $547 million in the same period in 2005. U.S. Nutritional sales were relatively flat at $267 million in the third quarter of 2006 in part due to temporary supply constraints, which were remedied during the quarter. International Nutritional sales increased 12% to $315 million in the third quarter of 2006, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL and ENFAGROW.
Other Health Care
 
 
2006 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb raises its 2006 full-year earnings guidance for fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis to between $0.97 and $1.02, from no less than $0.95 as previously provided following the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate.
The company also raises its 2006 fully-diluted earnings per share guidance to between $1.02 and $1.07 from no less than $0.95 on a non-GAAP basis, which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
The GAAP guidance provided above does not include other specified items that may occur and impact fourth quarter results. These specified items include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals and restructuring activities.
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations in addition to the pending PLAVIX litigation described below. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, also as previously disclosed, that the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of the pending PLAVIX patent litigation, these other litigations and investigations and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's GAAP and non-GAAP guidance for 2006 described above does not
 
reflect the potential impact of either the pending PLAVIX patent litigation as described below or any other litigation or investigation or other legal matters on the company's results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2006.
PLAVIX LITIGATION
On August 31, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court) granted the motion by the company and its product partner, sanofi-aventis, for a preliminary injunction to halt further sales of Apotex's generic clopidogrel bisulfate product. The Court did not order Apotex to recall products sold or shipped. Apotex has appealed the Court's preliminary injunction order. A hearing on that appeal is scheduled for October 31, 2006. As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S. with Apotex. The trial in the underlying patent litigation has been set for January 22, 2007. If Apotex were to prevail in its appeal of the preliminary injunction order or at the trial in the underlying patent litigation, the company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX promptly thereafter. There are other pending PLAVIX patent litigations in the United States and in other less significant markets for the product. The company continues to believe that the PLAVIX patents are valid and infringed, and with sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of Apotex's appeal of the preliminary injunction, the underlying patent litigation with Apotex or of the other PLAVIX patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX and/or the development of sustained generic competition would be material to the company's sales of PLAVIX, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the company's financial condition and liquidity. PLAVIX is the company's largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for PLAVIX in 2005 were $3.2 billion.
 
As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the pending PLAVIX patent litigation with Apotex. The company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the company. It is also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the company's compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (USAO). Also as previously disclosed, the USAO initiated an investigation that is being conducted by the Monitor and the USAO into corporate governance issues relating to the company's negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex. This investigation has been expanded to include a review of whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the previously disclosed Consent Order the company entered into with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2004 (SEC Consent). It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the company.
For additional discussion of legal matters, including the PLAVIX patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see "Item 1. Financial Statements Note 17. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis  SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement" in the company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ending June 30, 2006.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; costs of early debt retirement; and significant tax events, including the repatriation of special dividends pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example,
 
non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's operational results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and the unpredictability of the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether the appellate court in the PLAVIX litigation with Apotex will, on appeal, rule in the company's favor and maintain interim relief pending trial, and whether the company will prevail at trial in the underlying patent litigation, as well as any risks associated with the criminal investigation conducted by the Department of Justice in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex, and the launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by Apotex, including the amount of generic product distributed and the rate at which it will be utilized by prescription demand, and the time-period in which it will impact the company's results. These factors also include the ability to realize projected cost savings and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on October 26, 2006 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4901. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
GLEEVEC is a trademark of Novartis, Inc.
TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended September 30, 2006
 
Three months ended September 30, 2005
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2006
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K on August 31, 2006, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and March 31, 2006 and 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


