FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20060210110235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On February 9, 2006, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler has entered preliminary approval of a settlement agreement with plaintiffs in the consolidated securities class action litigation, pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, relating to the Company's investigational compound, omapatrilat (VANLEV). A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press release, dated February 9, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK (Feb 9, 2006) -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) announced today that U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler has entered preliminary approval of a settlement agreement with plaintiffs in the consolidated securities class action litigation, pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, relating to the Bristol-Myers Squibb investigational compound, omapatrilat (VANLEV).
 
Under the proposed settlement, Bristol-Myers Squibb will pay $185,000,000 to create a Settlement Fund to pay the claims of certain investors who purchased Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock during the period from October 19, 1999 through March 20, 2002. As previously disclosed, the Company has established a reserve in the amount of the Settlement Fund. The settlement also includes provisions regarding the Company's commitment to the public disclosure of the results of certain clinical trials, and the registration of trials on an appropriate publicly-accessible database. The settlement was entered into without any admission of wrongdoing by the Company. Notice to potentially eligible claimants will be mailed out in early March 2006. The settlement is subject to certain conditions, including the District Court's review and final approval at a fairness hearing, which is scheduled for May 11, 2006. There is no assurance that such conditions will be satisfied.
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 


