FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20060711171943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On July 11, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D., to its Board of Directors. Her election is effective July 11, 2006. Dr. Sato will stand for election by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2007. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to ten in connection with the election. Dr. Sato was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between her and any other persons. A copy of the press release announcing her election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1.     Press release dated July 11, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(NEW YORK, July 11, 2006)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D., to the Board effective today.
Dr. Sato is currently professor of management practice at the Harvard Business School and professor of molecular and cell biology at Harvard University. In 2005, she retired as president of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, where she was responsible for research and development, business and corporate development, commercial operations, legal, and finance. Dr. Sato also served as chief scientific officer, senior vice president of research and development, and chair of the Scientific Advisory Board at Vertex before being named president in 2000. Prior to joining Vertex, Dr. Sato was vice president of research at Biogen, Inc. and served on the Biogen Scientific Board.
She currently is a member of the Board of Directors of PerkinElmer Corporation, Infinity Pharmaceuticals and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals.
Dr. Sato received her A.B. degree from Radcliffe College and both her A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University. After completing postdoctoral work at both the University of California, Berkeley, and Stanford Medical Center, Dr. Sato was appointed to the biology faculty of Harvard University.
"Dr. Sato's broad and distinguished background in both science and business make her an outstanding addition to our Board of Directors," said Peter R. Dolan, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. James D. Robinson III, chairman of Bristol-Myers Squibb added, "We all are looking forward to working with Dr. Sato and benefiting from her insights and expertise gained over her many years of experience in the scientific and business communities."
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 


