FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20061103164734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
As previously announced, on September 12, 2006 Peter R. Dolan ceased to serve as Chief Executive Officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ("Company"). In connection with Mr. Dolan's departure from the Company on October 31, 2006 (the "Separation Date"), the Board of Directors of the Company, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board ("Committee"), has approved certain benefits to be provided to Mr. Dolan, who has completed over 18 years of service with the Company. The benefits are reflected in a Letter, General Waiver and Release Agreement (the "Dolan Letter") dated November 1, 2006 between Mr. Dolan and the Company and are summarized below:
Mr. Dolan will receive the following benefits to which he is entitled under the Company's various U.S. benefit plans as an employee who is involuntarily terminated without cause and who executes a General Release:
 
 
 
 
 
full-term to exercise 2,336,369 previously vested stock options, of which 917,654 stock options will remain subject to price appreciation exercise thresholds; c) vesting of 81,013 shares of restricted stock, constituting pro rata vesting of all restricted stock outstanding for at least one year; and d) the opportunity to receive pro rata distributions from long-term performance awards that have been outstanding for more than a year, assuming performance thresholds are met. Stock options, restricted stock and long-term performance awards that have been outstanding for less than one year will lapse and be forfeited.
 
Mr. Dolan will be retained as a consultant to the Chief Executive Officer from the Separation Date through April 30, 2007. Mr. Dolan will receive a monthly fee of $50,000 under the consulting arrangement and will be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with his performance under the arrangement.
Mr. Dolan will be eligible to receive outplacement services, not to exceed $75,000 in cost, and transition services, not to exceed $25,000 in cost.
Mr. Dolan will not receive a bonus for 2006 performance.
Additionally, under the Dolan Letter, Mr. Dolan has agreed to:
 
A copy of the Dolan Letter is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1.
As previously announced on September 12, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed James M. Cornelius as Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board of Directors of the Company, upon the recommendation of the Committee, has approved the compensation to be provided to Mr. Cornelius in connection with his appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company serving on an interim basis. Mr. Cornelius' compensation is reflected in a Letter Agreement ("Cornelius Agreement") dated October 31, 2006 between Mr. Cornelius and the Company and is summarized below:
Mr. Cornelius will receive an annual base salary of $1,250,000 to be paid in arrears on a bi-weekly basis in accordance with the Company's standard payroll practices.
Mr. Cornelius will be entitled to receive an annual target bonus of 170% of his base salary for up to fifteen (15) months (from September 30, 2006 until December 31, 2007).
 
 
successor Chief Executive Officer. Upon death or Disability during the period from June 15, 2007 through December 31, 2007, Mr. Cornelius will receive such bonus, if earned, as if he had been employed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company through December 31, 2007.
Under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, Mr. Cornelius will receive, on November 1, 2006, an option to purchase 360,000 shares of Company common stock. One-half of the option will vest on the earlier of (i) March 31, 2007 and (ii) the date on which a successor Chief Executive Officer commences employment with the Company, provided Mr. Cornelius was employed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company on March 31, 2007 or immediately prior to the commencement of a successor Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be. An additional 1/12 will vest at the end of each additional full month of continued employment as Chief Executive Officer after March 31, 2007. If Mr. Cornelius' employment terminates prior to the full vesting of the option, the Committee, in its sole discretion, will accelerate all or a portion of the remaining unvested options based upon evaluation of the performance of Mr. Cornelius and the Company during his service as Chief Executive Officer. The option will be subject to the standard stock appreciation requirements of the stock option grant for senior executives of the Company. Mr. Cornelius will have the remainder of the term to exercise any vested portion of the option.
Mr. Cornelius will have use of a leased apartment in New York City having a monthly cost of $25,500 plus utilities and, for security reasons, the use of the Company aircraft for all travel (subject to maximum cost limitations with regard to personal and commuting use) and the use of a car and driver. Use of the aircraft and car and driver will be grossed up for income tax purposes, but the use of the apartment will not be grossed up.
Mr. Cornelius will be entitled to the following benefits upon a Change in Control of the Company and the termination of his employment: (i) pro rata payment of the higher of target and projected bonus, (ii) full vesting of options and (iii) a gross up on the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, subject to cutback in certain circumstances.
A copy of the Cornelius Agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 8.01. Other Events
As previously announced, on September 12, 2006, Richard K. Willard ceased to serve as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company. In connection with Mr. Willard's departure from the Company on September 28, 2006, he became entitled to certain severance payments under his original offer letter. The severance payments are set forth in a Letter, General Waiver and Release Agreement ("Willard Letter") dated November 3, 2006 between Mr. Willard and the Company. As required pursuant to his original offer letter, Mr. Willard will receive a total gross cash severance of $1,428,000 (less applicable withholdings), representing two times his base salary. Mr. Willard will not receive a bonus for 2006 performance and all stock options, restricted stock and long-term performance awards have lapsed and are forfeited. In addition, the Willard Letter provides for a release by Mr. Willard of any claims against the Company and any affiliates and subsidiaries of the Company and their respective officers, directors, employees and agents relating to his employment at and separation from the Company and an agreement by Mr. Willard to cooperate and to generally make himself available in connection with any investigation or legal proceedings involving the Company any or any matter that relates to his employment at the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
        Stephen E. Bear
    Senior Vice President
        Human Resources
October 30, 2006
Mr. Peter Dolan
c/o Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10154
Dear Peter:
Effective September 12, 2006 you ceased to serve as Chief Executive Officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and as an officer or director of it and/or any of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") as well as a fiduciary of any of its benefit plans. Your employment with the Company will terminate on October 31, 2006 ("Separation Date"). As of the Separation Date, to the extent that you have not previously ceased to do so, you shall cease to be the Company's representative to any industry organization. You shall provide the Company or any such organization with such resignation with regard thereto as requested by the Chief Executive Officer. This will confirm that your current base salary of $1,250,000.00 per year will continue to be paid in normal biweekly pay intervals (less applicable withholdings and deductions) until your Separation Date. During the term of your employment under this Letter Agreement, you will remain an active at will full-time employee of the Company, subject to the terms contained herein, and will continue to receive the benefits for which you are eligible and enrolled on that basis up to your Separation Date. Your responsibilities will be as a senior advisor to the Chief Executive Officer primarily focusing on transition issues.
If you agree to enter into this Letter Agreement, subject to all of the following terms and conditions, you will be provided with the following compensation and benefits:
 
 
 
business day of May 2007. Any remaining payments due on or after May 1, 2007 will be paid at regular payroll intervals and will be so paid notwithstanding your commencement of other employment.
 
 
 
 
 
employer, as a dependent under the coverage available from your spouse's employer), such benefits shall be provided to you on an unsubsidized basis plus a 2% administrative fee until age 55, and thereafter, on a partially subsidized basis in accordance with the plan terms. The cost of retiree medical coverage is based on your years of service with the Company as of your termination date and your current age. Under the Retiree Medical Plan if you are eligible to enroll in Medicare coverage, Medicare will be your primary coverage and the Company plan will be secondary whether or not you actually enroll in Medicare. The Company reserves the right to amend, suspend or terminate its Retiree Medical Plan (and your rights with regard thereto), in whole or in part, any time in its sole and absolute discretion; provided that you shall not be treated differently than other similarly situated employees.
 
 
 
appreciation threshold, that threshold will remain in effect. All other stock options shall expire on the Separation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company will cease as of your Separation Date to the extent not otherwise ceased prior thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
delayed if the premiums therefore were paid by you, you shall pay the full cost of premiums for such welfare benefits during the Delay Period and the Company shall pay you an amount equal to the amount of such premiums paid by you during the Delay Period promptly after its conclusion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company, and any affiliates, parent companies and subsidiaries, and its and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, employee benefit plans and their administrators and fiduciaries and its and their successors and assigns (collectively the "Released Parties") based upon any act or event occurring prior to the Effective Date of this Letter Agreement. Without limitation, you specifically release the Released Parties from any and all such claims arising out of your employment and separation from the Company, whether known, or unknown, including, but not limited to, claims under the Change in Control Agreement (except to the extent provided in paragraph 2 hereof with regard to excise tax gross up payments in connection with a change in control of the Company), claims based on discrimination under federal anti-discrimination laws such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, claims under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") (including, without limitation, claims for interference with your rights to benefits under section 510 of ERISA) and/or any other federal, state, or local law (statutory or decisional), regulation or ordinance, including, but not limited to, the New York State Human Rights Law, the Administrative Code of the City of New York, the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination, the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act, the New Jersey Family Leave Act, New Jersey Wage and Hour Laws, and the New Jersey Wage Discrimination Act. You further acknowledge that the Company has offered to provide you with this Letter Agreement in lieu of those benefits to which you otherwise may have been entitled under any Company severance plan, program or arrangement, if any.
 
 
 
 
 
 
business reputation of the Company or its employees. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to prohibit or restrict you from providing truthful information concerning your employment or the Company's business activities to any government, regulatory or self-regulatory agency or pursuant to a valid subpoena issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, or to deny (but not to otherwise disparage the Company Group in connection therewith) the truth of any false statement made about you.
 
 
 
indemnification and/or expense reimbursement. You will not be entitled to any other compensation for cooperation, except as otherwise provided under any indemnification arrangement with the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
not limit any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity including, without limitation, the right to monetary, compensatory and punitive damages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such assignment had taken place. As used in this Letter Agreement, "the Company" will mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business and/or assets which by reason hereof assumes and agrees to perform this Letter Agreement by operation of law or otherwise. In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, with respect to any payments, entitlements or benefits payable or due hereunder, references in this Letter Agreement to you will be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to your legal representatives or your beneficiary or beneficiaries. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may not assign this Letter Agreement except to a successor to the Company, and any such assignment by the Company will not relieve it of its obligations hereunder. None of your rights or obligations under this Letter Agreement may be assigned or transferred by you other than your rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement or other applicable plans or agreements of the Company.
 
 
Notices, demands and other communications will be deemed given on delivery thereof.
 
 
 
 
YOUR SIGNATURE BELOW ACKNOWLEDGES THAT YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE, UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE SIGNING, AND ARE SIGNING IT VOLUNTARILY AND ACTING OF YOUR OWN FREE WILL. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT, IF ANY PROVISION OF THIS LETTER AGREEMENT IS FOUND TO BE INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, IT WILL NOT AFFECT THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION. YOU FURTHER AGREE THAT THIS LETTER AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW RULES. YOU ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE COMPANY HAS ADVISED AND HEREBY ADVISES YOU IN WRITING TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY AND OTHER ADVISORS OF YOUR CHOICE PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT.
 
 
Please indicate your acceptance of this Letter Agreement by signing and returning it to me.
 
 
 
General Release by Peter Dolan ("Mr. Dolan") in his capacity as an individual and on behalf of his heirs, executors, administrators, attorneys, agents, successors and assigns of all claims against Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company"), and any affiliates, parent companies and subsidiaries, and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees and agents, employee benefit plans and their administrators and fiduciaries and its and their successors and assigns (collectively the "Released Parties").
In exchange for the payments and other consideration set forth in paragraph 1 of the Letter Agreement between Mr. Dolan and the Company dated October 30, 2006 (the "Letter Agreement"), and other valuable consideration, Mr. Dolan waives any and all rights to sue and/or make any claims against the Released Parties based upon any act or event occurring prior to the date of this General Release. Without limitation, Mr. Dolan specifically releases the Released Parties from any and all such claims arising out of Mr. Dolan's employment and separation from the Company, whether known, or unknown, including, but not limited to, claims under the Change in Control Agreement (except to the extent provided in paragraph 2 of the Letter Agreement with regard to excise tax gross up payments in connection with a change in control of the Company), claims based on discrimination under federal anti-discrimination laws such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, claims under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") (including, without limitation, claims for interference with your rights to benefits under section 510 of ERISA) and/or any other federal, state, or local law (statutory or decisional), regulation or ordinance, including, but not limited to, the New York State Human Rights Law, the Administrative Code of the City of New York, the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination, the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act, the New Jersey Family Leave Act, New Jersey Wage and Hour Laws, and the New Jersey Wage Discrimination Act. Mr. Dolan further acknowledges that the Company has offered to provide Mr. Dolan with the Letter Agreement in lieu of those benefits to which Mr. Dolan otherwise may have been entitled under any Company severance plan, program or arrangement, if any.
Mr. Dolan acknowledges that he is not giving up any claims for any accrued, vested benefits under any employee benefit, equity or pension plan of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of such plan and applicable law. Mr. Dolan acknowledges that he is not giving up his right to appeal a denial of a claim for benefits submitted under his medical or dental coverage, life insurance or disability income program maintained by the Company. Further, Mr. Dolan is not giving up his right to file a claim for unemployment insurance benefits nor his rights, if any, to file a claim for workers' compensation insurance benefits. Nor is Mr. Dolan giving up his right to indemnification or reimbursement of expenses under the Company's organizational documents, Bylaws or any agreement concerning indemnification or reimbursement of expenses, his right to director and officer insurance coverage, if any, any rights or claims Mr. Dolan has under the Letter
 
Agreement or the Consulting Agreement, including any rights or claims arising out of any breach by the Company of the Letter Agreement or the Consulting Agreement, any right to reimbursement for business expenses incurred during the course of Mr. Dolan's employment with the Company and in accordance with the Company's policy with respect to the reimbursement of business expenses, any right or claim Mr. Dolan may have to obtain contribution as permitted by applicable law in an instance in which both Mr. Dolan, on the one hand, and the Company, any affiliate of the Company or any other Released Party, on the other hand, are held to be jointly liable, or any right or claim that may initially arise after the date hereof.
Mr. Dolan agrees that this General Release is an integral part of the Letter Agreement, and that all provisions of the Letter Agreement are thereby incorporated in this General Release as if fully set forth herein. Mr. Dolan acknowledges that this General Release and the Letter Agreement constitute the full and complete understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and that neither may be modified except in writing and signed by Mr. Dolan and an authorized officer of the Company. He further represents and agrees that, in signing this General Release, he is not relying on any promises or representations not contained herein and acknowledges that he is not entitled to any other compensation or benefits from the Company except as otherwise expressly provided for in the Letter Agreement, the Consulting Agreement and herein.
BY SIGNING BELOW, MR. DOLAN ACKNOWLEDGES THAT HE HAD AT LEAST 21 DAYS TO CONSIDER THIS GENERAL RELEASE BEFORE SIGNING IT, THAT HE MAY NOT SIGN IT BEFORE HIS SEPARATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE LETTER AGREEMENT), THAT AFTER SIGNING IT, HE HAS 7 DAYS TO REVOKE HIS SIGNATURE AND THAT, PROVIDED HE DOES NOT REVOKE IT, IT WILL BECOME EFFECTIVE ON THE EIGHTH DAY AFTER HE SIGNS IT. BY SIGNING BELOW, MR. DOLAN ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT HE HAS READ THE ABOVE, UNDERSTANDS WHAT HE IS SIGNING, HAS BEEN ADVISED IN WRITING TO CONSULT AN ATTORNEY BEFORE SIGNING IT, AND IS SIGNING IT VOLUNTARILY AND OF HIS OWN FREE WILL. HE FURTHER AGREES THAT IF ANY PROVISION OF THIS GENERAL RELEASE IS FOUND TO BE INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, IT WILL NOT AFFECT THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION. HE FURTHER AGREES THAT THIS GENERAL RELEASE WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW RULES AND CONSENTS TO PERSONAL JURISDICTION IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK.
 
 
AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 30th day of October, 2006, by and between BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY (the "Company") and PETER DOLAN ("Dolan").
WHEREAS, Dolan will cease to be an employee of the Company on October 31, 2006;
WHEREAS, Dolan is willing to offer the Company consulting services as the sole service provider thereafter; and
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to avail itself of the services of Dolan as a consultant to the Company for six (6) months thereafter, and Dolan is willing to perform such services,
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company and Dolan (each individually, a "Party," and collectively, the "Parties") agree as follows:
 
The Company engages Dolan as a consultant for the period as set forth in Section 2 to provide the services as set forth in Section 3, subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Dolan understands and agrees that the services rendered by him shall be those of an independent consultant and not of an agent or employee of the Company. In this connection, neither Dolan, nor any employee or agent of Dolan, will be eligible to participate in or entitled to receive any employee benefits from the Company as a result of this Agreement or the services rendered under it, even if such employee is subsequently determined by any court, the Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental agency to be a common law employee of the Company. To the extent that any court, the Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental agency determines that Dolan or any employee or agent of Dolan to be a common law employee, Dolan agrees that any such employee will waive any benefits that may be awarded, or in the event that such employee refuses to waive such benefits, Dolan will reimburse the Company for all expenses attributable to such benefits. Dolan's services will be of an advisory nature only, and Dolan will have no power of decision with respect to any matters which are the subject of consultation and will not have any responsibility in connection with the active management of the Company. Dolan further understands that, he is responsible for the full reporting and payment of local, state and federal taxes and statutory benefits, including Social Security (FICA), workers compensation, disability, and unemployment insurance with respect to any of his employees, agents or himself. No deductions, withholding, or additional payments for such purposes shall be made by the Company. Dolan shall indemnify and hold the Company and its affiliates harmless with regard to any failure of him to fulfill his obligations with regard to such taxes or statutory benefits and any act or inaction by his employees or agents in performing the services hereunder.
 
The term of Dolan's service under this Agreement shall commence as of November 1, 2006 and shall terminate on April 30, 2007, or earlier upon Dolan's death, incapacity to provide services for more than twenty (20) consecutive days or upon notice in the event of Dolan's willful misconduct, activities detrimental to the interests of the Company or breach of this Agreement which is not cured within five (5) days of written notice thereof (the "Term of Services"). If Dolan's services are terminated for any of the reasons set forth in the preceding sentence, the Company shall pay Dolan a pro rated monthly installment of the fee set forth in Section 3 below for the portion of the month in which such termination occurs. During the Term of Services, Dolan shall provide services to the Company for an average of twenty (20) hours per week at such times as requested by the Company's Interim Chief Executive Officer or Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO"). The failure of the CEO to so request Dolan's services for any period during the Term of Services shall not affect the Company obligations hereunder, including the obligation to pay Dolan the fees set forth in Section 3 below.
 
 
 
 
 
During the Term of Services, for the services described above, Dolan shall receive a monthly fee of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), payable in arrears on a monthly basis; provided that any amounts that would be payable prior to May 1, 2007 will be paid in a lump-sum on the first business day of May 2007. Dolan shall be entitled to interest at a simple interest rate of 5.5% on the fees payable under this Section 4 in respect of the period from November 1,
 
2006 through April 30, 2007. Such interest shall accrue as of the first day of the month in which such fees would have been paid had the payment of such fees not been delayed until the first business day of May 2007, and shall be paid at the same time as such fees are actually paid to Dolan.
 
Dolan will receive full reimbursement for all reasonable expenses (, travel and lodging expenses) incurred by him and his employees in rendering services to the Company under this Agreement, provided that Dolan shall provide complete and timely documentation of such expenses in accordance with the Company's standard policy, and further provided that the foregoing shall not include office or staff costs of Dolan. Any expense in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) (other than reasonable travel and lodging expenses) shall be pre-approved by the CEO or his designee.
e.g.
 
 
 
 
Dolan hereby acknowledges that he and his employees may have access to and become acquainted with various trade secrets and proprietary information of the Company not available to competitors of the Company, including without limitation, information relating to its products, product development, trade secrets, customers, suppliers, finances, management, operations and business plans and strategies. Dolan covenants that he and his employees will not, directly or indirectly, disclose or use such information that is not otherwise a matter of public record, except as is necessary and appropriate in connection with rendering by him of services to the Company under this Agreement or except as may be required by a court of law, a governmental agency having supervisory authority over the business of the Company or by any administrative or legislative body (including a committee thereof) with apparent jurisdiction to order him to divulge, disclose or make accessible such information. Dolan agrees that in the event that he or an employee of Dolan does directly or indirectly, disclose or use such information in violation of the foregoing, Dolan shall
 
reimburse the Company for any and all liability arising out of and in connection with such disclosure.
 
The validity, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the principles of conflict of law.
 
If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof.
 
No provision in this Agreement may be amended unless such amendment is agreed to in writing and signed by Dolan and an authorized officer of the Company. No waiver by either Party of any breach by the other Party of any condition or provision contained in this Agreement to be performed by such other Party shall be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same or any prior or subsequent time. Any waiver must be in writing and signed by Dolan or an authorized officer of the company, as the case may be.
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, notices, demands and all other communications provided for in this Agreement will be in writing and will be sent by messenger or overnight courier (provided in each case, confirmation of receipt is obtained), certified or registered mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested or by facsimile transmission to the parties at their respective addresses and fax numbers set forth below or to such other address or fax number as to which notice is given.
 
Notices, demands and other communications will be deemed given on delivery thereof.
 
The headings of the sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors, heirs (in Dolan's case) or assigns. The Company will require any assignee of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such assignment had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "the Company" will mean the Company as defined above and any successor to its business and/or assets which by reason hereof assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise. In the event of Dolan's death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, with respect to any payments, entitlements or benefits payable or due hereunder, references in this Agreement to Dolan will be deemed to refer, where appropriate, to his legal representatives or his beneficiary or beneficiaries. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may not assign this Agreement except to a successor to the Company, and any such assignment by the Company will not relieve it of its obligations hereunder. None of Dolan's rights or obligations under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by him other than his rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement or other applicable plans or agreements of the Company.
 
Any disputes arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be resolved, except as provided in the last sentence hereof, by binding arbitration, to be held in New York, New York, in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Each Party shall bear his or its own costs of the arbitration or litigation, including, without limitation, his or its attorneys' fees. In the event of a breach or threatened breach of Section 6 or 7 of this Agreement, Dolan agrees that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive or other equitable relief in a court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy any such breach or threatened breach, and Dolan acknowledges that damages would be inadequate and insufficient.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Dolan have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
James D. Robinson III
          Chairman
October 31, 2006
Mr. James M. Cornelius
Chief Executive Officer
c/o Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10154
 
Dear Jim:
On behalf of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the ""), I am pleased to summarize the principal terms of the compensation package being provided to you by the Company for your services as Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis, to which position you were elected on September 12, 2006.
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
commencement of employment by the Replacement Chief Executive Officer as Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, you are employed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company or you were earlier terminated by the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company (and fulfilled the release obligations in the grant) or as otherwise provided in the grant upon death or Disability. The remaining portion of the stock option will become vested at a rate of 1/12
th
of the total option shares per month for each full month of service as Chief Executive Officer after March 31, 2007. Your right to exercise the stock option will be subject to the standard stock appreciation requirements of the stock option grant, including waiver of such condition upon your death and following a "Change in Control" (as defined in the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan) of the Company. If, at the time you cease to serve as Chief Executive Officer (other than as a result of a termination for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or your voluntary resignation prior to the commencement of employment by the Replacement Chief Executive Officer as Chief Executive Officer) a portion of your stock option has not fully vested, the Compensation and Management Development Committee will, in its sole discretion, accelerate all or a portion (or none) of the unvested stock option based on its evaluation of the performance of you and the Company during your service as Chief Executive Officer. In the event of your "qualifying termination" (as defined in the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan) as Chief Executive Officer of the Company during the three-year period following a Change in Control, the stock option will become fully vested. You shall have the right to exercise the vested portion of the stock option for the full stock option term, unless you are terminated by the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. The other terms and conditions of the stock option will be in accordance with the Company's standard form of nonqualified stock option agreement under the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. The form of grant is annexed hereto as .
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
 
Jim, we are excited about your serving the Company as Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or concerns regarding your compensation package as outlined above. If this letter accurately reflects your understanding as to your compensation package for serving as Chief Executive Officer of the Company on an interim basis, please sign and date one copy of this letter and return the same to me for the Company's records.
 
 
The foregoing accurately reflects our understanding regarding my compensation package for serving as Chief Executive Officer of the Company on an interim basis, and I hereby confirm my agreement to the same.
 
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") has granted you an option to purchase a number of shares of the Common Stock of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, (the "Option"), at the specified price set forth in the above Grant Summary. The Expiration Date of the grant is , 2016. This grant is subject in all respects to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Company.
                    
This Option is granted upon and subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
In addition to the vesting provisions stated above, 100% of the Option award is subject to a price appreciation exercise threshold. The Option may only be exercised once the Company's common stock achieves a closing price of $ and remains at or above that closing price for seven (7) consecutive trading days during the Option term. This price appreciation exercise threshold shall not apply in the case of your death or on or following a change in control of the Company.
            
 
Payment must be made in the form of a wire transfer, personal check, or money order, payable in U.S. dollars and on a U.S. bank to the order of the Company's designated broker/agent; or by authorizing the Company's designated broker/agent to sell the shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire exercise price, applicable brokerage fees, and any withholding and/or taxes and applicable fees resulting from such exercise as described in Section 3 hereof; or, if not problematic under local law, by delivery of a certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by you for at least six months having a fair market value at the date of exercise equal to the purchase price for such shares, or in a combination of the foregoing; provided, however, that payment in shares of Common Stock of the Company will not be permitted unless at least 100 shares of Common Stock are required and delivered for such purpose. Any stock certificate or certificates so delivered must be endorsed, or accompanied by an appropriate stock power, to the order of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, with the signature guaranteed by a bank or trust company or by a member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. In lieu of the physical delivery of certificate(s), you may submit certificates by attestation.
No shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless such issuance and such exercise shall comply with all relevant provisions of law and the requirement of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed.
 
 
 
(a)    .   If you cease to be so employed by reason of disability, entitling you to receive payments under a disability pay plan of the Company, you shall be treated for vesting purposes as though you remained in the employ of the Company until the earlier of (i) cessation of payments under the disability pay plan, (ii) death, and (iii) attainment of 65th birthday. The Option will not lapse until the Expiration Date, subject to the terms of the Plan unrelated to termination of employment.
Disability
(b) . If you die while you are employed by the Company, the Option will become 100% vested and will not lapse until the Expiration Date, subject to the terms of the Plan unrelated to termination of employment; provided that with regard to death prior to November 1, 2007, the foregoing vesting acceleration shall not apply unless the Plan permits the Compensation and Management Development Committee to accelerate vesting during such period and the Compensation and Management Development Committee elects to do so.
Death
(c) . If you resign from the Company prior to the earlier of April 1, 2007 or the start date of employment of the Replacement Chief Executive Officer as Chief Executive Officer, or if you are involuntarily terminated for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, any unvested Option shares will lapse on your termination date. If your employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, prior to April 1, 2007, you will be entitled to 50% of the options subject to this award provided you sign a General Release and comply with the other provisions of this Agreement, All unvested options will be forfeited upon a termination of employment, except as provided herein, provided that if at the time you cease to serve as Chief Executive Officer (other than as a result of your termination for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company or by your voluntary resignation prior to the commencement of employment of the Replacement Chief Executive Officer as Chief Executive Officer) a portion of the grant has not become vested, the Compensation and Management Development Committee will, in its sole discretion, accelerate all or a portion (or none) of the unvested Option based on its evaluation of the performance of you and the Company during your service as Chief Executive Officer.
Other
(d) . The Option shall be subject to the treatment set forth in subsection (14) of the Plan with respect to acceleration of vesting upon a qualifying termination during the three-year period following a change in control of the Company.
Change in Control
(e) . In all cases of termination of employment other than your termination for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, you will have the remainder of the term to exercise the vested portion of the Option, subject to the terms of the Plan unrelated to termination of employment.
Option Term
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I understand that this option has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and it is expected that during my employment I will retain the stock I receive upon the exercise of this option consistent with the Company's share retention guidelines in effect at the time of exercise of this award. In accepting this grant, I hereby agree that Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the p!an, may provide the Company with any and all account information necessary to monitor my compliance with the Company's Share Retention Policy during my employment.
I hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions and accept the grant of the option subject thereto.
 
In the event that you become entitled to any amounts payable in connection with a "" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) of the Company (whether or not such amounts are payable pursuant to this letter) (the ""), if any of such CiC Payments are subject to the tax (the "") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar federal, state or local tax that may hereafter be imposed), the Company shall pay to you an additional amount (the "") such that the net amount retained by you, after deduction of any Excise Tax on the Total Payments (as hereinafter defined) and any federal, state and local income tax (taking into account the loss of itemized deductions) and employment tax and Excise Tax upon the payment provided for by this Exhibit, shall be equal to the present value of the Total Payments. If any portion of the Total Payments would be subject to the imposition of the Excise Tax, and if a reduction of the Total Payments by an amount not exceeding 10% of the Safe Harbor Amount (as defined below) would avoid the imposition of the Excise Tax on you, the Total Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary (but not more than 10% of the Safe Harbor Amount and only to the extent necessary) to result in no imposition of the Excise Tax on you. This cut-back provision shall apply to amounts and benefits payable under this letter which are designated in writing by you prior to the applicable payment date or, if no designation has been made, to payments and benefits under this letter as determined by the Company so as to minimize the amount of your compensation that is reduced (, the payments that to the greatest extent are parachute payments shall be reduced to the extent authorized hereunder). "" shall mean one dollar less than 300% of the "base amount" as determined in accordance with Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code.
Change in Control
Code
CiC Payments
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
i.e.
Safe Harbor Amount
For purposes of determining whether any of the CiC Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax:
 
 
For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, you shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation (taking into account the loss of itemized deductions) in the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence on your date of termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes. In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder at the time of your termination, you shall repay to the Company, within ten days after the amount of such reduction in Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction (plus the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to the Excise Tax and federal and state and local income tax imposed on the Gross-Up Payment being repaid by you to the extent that such repayment results in a reduction in Excise Tax and/or federal and state and local income tax deduction) plus interest on the amount of such repayment at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. In the event that the Excise Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time of the termination of your employment (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall make an additional gross-up payment in respect of such excess within ten days after the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined. In the event that the subsequent determinations as to the Excise Tax affect the calculations relating to the cut-back provisions, such amounts will be recalculated and the provisions of this Exhibit applied based on the revised calculations, with interest applied to any payments by either party at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code.
Nothing in this Exhibit is intended to violate the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and to the extent that any advance or repayment obligation hereunder would do so, such obligation shall be modified so as to make the advance a nonrefundable payment to you and the repayment obligation null and void.
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Exhibit comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, and this Exhibit shall be construed and applied in a manner consistent with this intent. In the event that any payment under this Exhibit is determined by the Company to be in the nature of deferred compensation payments, you and the Company hereby agree to take such actions as may be mutually agreed between the parties to ensure that such payments comply with the applicable provisions of Section 409A of the Code and the treasury regulations and other official guidance promulgated thereunder.
 


