FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20071025085023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 25, 2007)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and updated earnings guidance for the full year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted third quarter 2007 net sales of $5.1 billion, an increase of 22% over the same period in 2006. The company reported third quarter 2007 net earnings of $858 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $338 million, or $0.17 per diluted share for the same period in 2006. The 2007 results include a one-time pre-tax gain of $247 million ($144 million net of tax, or $0.07 per diluted share) on the sale of the BUFFERIN and EXCEDRIN brands in Japan. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, third
 
quarter 2007 net earnings were $764 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $438 million, or $0.22 per diluted share for the same period in 2006. The increase in net earnings in 2007 as compared to 2006 is due to strong sales growth of key and newer products in 2007 and reflects the adverse impact of generic competition for PLAVIX in the third quarter of 2006.
"We remain focused on developing breakthrough medicines for patients worldwide, while also delivering shareholder value," said James M. Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We're making significant progress in identifying ways to operate more efficiently and reduce costs companywide as we maintain investments in our productive pipeline, which continues to yield important new therapies, including the recent addition of IXEMPRA for breast cancer. We're also boosting our presence in biologics with the announced acquisition of Adnexus Therapeutics. Our key products continue to demonstrate solid growth as we move forward with the transformation of our pharmaceutical business to help even more people prevail in their fight against serious diseases."
For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, net sales increased 5%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $14.5 billion compared to the same period in 2006. Net earnings in the first nine months of 2007 on a GAAP basis were $2.3 billion, or $1.14 per diluted share, compared to $1.7 billion, or $0.88 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings of $2.2 billion, or $1.13 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, compared to $1.8 billion, or $0.89 per diluted share for the same period last year.
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
In October, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval of IXEMPRA (ixabepilone) as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer in patients whose tumors are resistant or refractory to anthracyclines, taxanes and capecitabine. The FDA has also granted approval of IXEMPRA in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline, and a taxane, or whose cancer is taxane resistant and for whom further anthracycline therapy is contraindicated. In September, the company submitted a Marketing Application Authorization (MAA) for ixabepilone to the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA).
 
In October, ATRIPLA was approved in Canada as the first once-daily single-tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults. In addition, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMEA issued a positive opinion on the MAA for ATRIPLA.
In October, the company, ImClone and Merck KGaA entered into an agreement for the co-development and co-commercialization of ERBITUX in Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, the parties will collaborate on a joint effort to develop and market ERBITUX in Japan for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, as well as for the treatment of other cancers the parties agree to pursue. ERBITUX was submitted to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency for approval in February 2007.
In October, the company acquired privately held Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. (Adnexus), developer of a new therapeutic class of biologics called ADNECTINS. ADNECTINS are a proprietary class of targeted biologics based on a naturally occurring protein found in human serum. The company expects to record an in-process research and development charge in connection with the acquisition in the fourth quarter.
In September, ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) and the company announced that a Phase III study of ERBITUX in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy, conducted by Merck KGaA, met its primary endpoint of increasing overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. As previously disclosed, an earlier study conducted by ImClone and the company evaluating the use of ERBITUX in combination with a different platinum-based therapy did not meet its primary endpoint of increasing progression free survival in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Key secondary endpoints of this study, however, were statistically significant and favored the ERBITUX-containing arm.
In August, the European Commission approved an update to the SPRYCEL
TM
label to include 100 mg once daily, from 70 mg twice daily, as a starting dose for patients with chronic phase chronic myeloid leukaemia resistant or intolerant to imatinib. The FDA is reviewing a sNDA on the 100 mg starting dose, with a target action date in mid-November.
In August, the FDA accepted, for filing and review, the supplemental biologics license application for ORENCIA for the treatment of pediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
 
The company remains in discussions with the FDA regarding vinflunine. Based on FDA feedback, the company does not expect to file a New Drug Application for the treatment of bladder cancer.
THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on earnings before minority interest and income taxes was 24.2% in the third quarter of 2007 compared to 31.3% in the third quarter of 2006. The 2006 effective tax rate included a $39 million change in estimate on a prior year specified item.
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results. For information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales increased 24% to $3.9 billion in the third quarter of 2007, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, compared to the same period in 2006.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales increased 42% to $2.3 billion in the third quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, primarily due to increased PLAVIX sales, as well as the continued growth of key products and sales of newer products ORENCIA , BARACLUDE and SPRYCEL.
International pharmaceutical sales increased 6% to $1.6 billion in the third quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, due to a favorable 6% foreign exchange impact. Sales growth in ABILIFY and newer products BARACLUDE and SPRYCEL was offset by increased generic competition for PRAVACHOL and TAXOL. The company's reported international sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continue to show growth in the third quarter of 2007.
 
Product Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined third quarter 2007 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 12%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1.1 billion compared to the same period in 2006.
Nutritionals
 
Other Health Care
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2007 AND 2008
Bristol-Myers Squibb revises its 2007 earnings guidance for fully diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis to be between $1.28 and $1.33 from $1.35 to $1.45. The revised GAAP guidance reflects a fourth quarter charge for in-process research and development related to the company's recent acquisition of Adnexus. The guidance does not include restructuring and other charges that cannot be reasonably estimated at this time in connection with the company's comprehensive cost reduction programs, including charges related to workforce reductions and the rationalization of some facilities. While the amount and timing of these charges cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, the company expects that the charges are likely to be incurred over the next three years and are reasonably likely to be material.
The company raises its 2007 fully diluted earnings per share guidance on a non-GAAP basis to be between $1.42 and $1.47 from $1.35 to $1.45. The non-GAAP guidance excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
The company continues to estimate its 2008 earnings per share guidance on a fully diluted basis to be between $1.60 and $1.70, subject to certain assumptions, and excluding the impact of restructuring and other charges related to the company's comprehensive cost reduction programs discussed above and specified items discussed below. This guidance assumes, compared to 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
The financial guidance for 2008 further assumes no significant acquisitions or divestitures and that the company and its product partner, sanofi-aventis, maintain exclusivity for the PLAVIX patent through at least 2008.
Further, the 2008 guidance excludes other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; and significant tax events.
As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S. with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex). Apotex's appeal of the U.S. District Court decision upholding the validity and enforceability of the main patent protection for PLAVIX is still pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Activities relating to the damages phase of the litigation in the U.S. District Court continue to proceed.
Even though the company and its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, prevailed in the U.S. District Court, if Apotex were to prevail on appeal, the company could expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX promptly thereafter. There are other pending PLAVIX patent litigations in the United States and in other less significant markets for the product. The company continues to believe that the PLAVIX patents are valid and infringed, and with its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases.
 
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the appeal by Apotex of the patent litigation or of the other PLAVIX patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX and/or the development of sustained generic competition would be material to the company's sales of PLAVIX, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the company's financial condition and liquidity. PLAVIX is the company's largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for PLAVIX were $2.7 billion and $3.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; co promotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; costs of early debt retirement; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These
 
factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether Apotex will prevail in its appeal of the District court's decision in the PLAVIX patent litigation. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its comprehensive cost reduction programs, the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on October 25, 2007 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4911. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, Communications, Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, John Elicker, 212-546-3775, Investor Relations, or Suketu Desai, 609-252-5796, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
(Continued)
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended September 30, 2007
 
Three months ended September 30, 2006
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2007
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2007
 
Three months ended September 30, 2006
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2007
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
2007 and 2008 Gross Margin/Research and Development/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 was 68.4%, which included specified items of $46 million and had a 0.3% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 gross margin was 68.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2007 to be at least 100 basis points higher than 2006 and for the full year 2008 to improve slightly compared to the full year 2007 estimate. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 were $2,412 million, which included specified items of $157 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 research and development expenses were $2,255 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2007 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2006 and for the full year 2008 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to the full year 2007 estimate. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See R&D non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 was 19.7%, which included specified items of $2 million in the tax provision, and had a 0.1% favorable impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 effective tax rate was 19.8%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2007 to be in the 20% range and for the full year 2008 to be in the 22% to 24% range. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2007 and 2008 would include specified items that may occur and impact results, including restructuring and other charges that cannot be reasonably estimated at this time in connection with the Company's comprehensive cost reduction programs, including charges relating to workforce reductions and the rationalization of some facilities. While the amount and timing of these restructuring and other charges cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, the Company expects that the charges are likely to be incurred over the next three years and are reasonably likely to be material. These specified items could also include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Third Quarter of 2007, October 25, 2007, including "Outlook for 2007 and 2008" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
 
The following tables sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2006 annual net sales) sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 and June 30, 2007 and 2006.
 
For all products other than Erbitux and Orencia, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third-party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
 
 
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and filed on Form 8-K on August 31, 2007, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the businesses listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2007, March 31, 2007, June 30, 2006 and March 31, 2006, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the business as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals business are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the U.S. For the other non-Pharmaceuticals reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the U.S. and all significant business units outside of the U.S.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
 


