FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070125100441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 25, 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter and twelve months of 2006 and announcing 2007 earnings guidance. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, January 25, 2007)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and announced 2007 earnings guidance.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted fourth quarter 2006 net sales from continuing operations of $4.2 billion, compared with $5.0 billion for the same period in 2005. The company reported a fourth quarter 2006 net loss from continuing operations of $134 million, or a loss of $0.07 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to net earnings of $499 million, or $0.26 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. The net loss was driven by an increase in litigation reserves and early debt retirement costs. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, fourth quarter 2006 net earnings from continuing operations were $380 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to $601 million, or $0.31 per diluted share for the same period in 2005. The decrease in
non-GAAP net earnings in 2006 as compared to 2005 is mainly due to the impact of the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate in August 2006, which continued to have a significant adverse effect in the fourth quarter, and the loss of patent exclusivity on PRAVACHOL in major markets.
"The company remains focused on executing our strategy and building shareholder value, with an expected return to sales and earnings growth beginning this year," said Jim Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "Our ongoing commitment to increasing investment in R&D has yielded a robust late-stage pipeline, demand for our major products continues to increase at a double-digit rate, and PLAVIX market share is increasing as remaining generic inventory depletes."
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, net sales from continuing operations decreased 7% to $17.9 billion compared with net sales of $19.2 billion for the same period in 2005. Net earnings from continuing operations for the full year 2006 on a GAAP basis were $1.6 billion, or $0.81 per diluted share, compared to $3.0 billion, or $1.52 per diluted share for the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, Bristol-Myers Squibb reported net earnings from continuing operations for the full year 2006 of $2.1 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared to $2.8 billion, or $1.43 per diluted share for the same period last year.
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
On January 11, Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) announced a collaboration to develop and commercialize two investigational compounds, saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, being studied for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. Both compounds were discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The collaboration on these compounds is worldwide, except for Japan. Terms of the agreements include an upfront payment of $100 million by AstraZeneca to Bristol-Myers Squibb, as well as additional payments of up to $650 million based on development and regulatory milestones for the two compounds and potential sales milestones up to $300 million per product. Additionally, the companies have agreed upon initial development plans for the two compounds, with AstraZeneca funding the majority of development costs from 2007 through 2009. Separately, the company also announced a collaboration with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. to develop saxagliptin in Japan.
On January 10, Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone Systems Incorporated announced that data from a pivotal Phase III study of ERBITUX
plus FOLFIRI (an irinotecan-based chemotherapy) met the primary endpoint of increasing median duration of progression-free survival over FOLFIRI alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).
 
In November 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab used as combination with chemotherapy (dacarbazine) in previously untreated metastatic melanoma patients. The FDA also granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab used as a monotherapy in previously treated metastatic melanoma patients. The company is working toward a potential submission date of late 2007.
In November 2006, the company received European Medicine Evaluation Agency (EMEA) approval of SPRYCEL (dasatinib) for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) or Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC
(imatinib mesylate). SPRYCEL was launched in the U.S. and certain European markets during 2006.
FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on loss from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was a benefit of 58.6% for the three months ended December 31, 2006, compared with an effective tax rate of 21.4% for the earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2005. The fourth quarter 2006 tax benefit was in part attributable to the reinstatement of the U. S. Federal Research and Development credit in December 2006, which was partially offset by the treatment of provisions for a portion of certain litigation reserves as non-deductible.
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
The pre-tax specified items in 2006 included:
 
 
The pre-tax specified items in 2005 included:
 
For additional information on specified items, see "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" and Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 22%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. Worldwide sales of the products that the company views as growth drivers* decreased by 15% in the fourth quarter of 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding PLAVIX, worldwide sales of the other growth drivers* increased 35% in the fourth quarter of 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales decreased 32% to $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, primarily due to lower sales of PLAVIX and the loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL primarily offset by continued growth of ABILIFY, ERBITUX, the SUSTIVA franchiseREYATAZ and AVAPRO/AVALIDE and sales of new products ORENCIABARACLUDE and SPRYCEL In aggregate, estimated U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the fourth quarter decreased to less than three weeks.
,
,
.
International pharmaceutical sales decreased 8%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1.6 billion for the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The decrease was mainly due to a decline in PRAVACHOL and TAXOL sales resulting from increased generic
 
competition in Europe, partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ, ABILIFY and BARACLUDE. The company's reported international sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continued to show growth in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Product Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined fourth quarter 2006 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 6% to $1.1 billion compared to the same period in 2005.
Nutritionals
Worldwide Nutritional sales increased 6%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $618 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 from $584 million in the same period in 2005. U.S. Nutritional sales increased 5% to $295 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL, the company's best selling infant formula. International Nutritional sales increased 7% to $323 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAGROW.
 
Other Health Care
 
 
2007 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb estimates its 2007 fully-diluted earnings guidance for fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis to be between $1.12 and $1.22.
The company also estimates its 2007 fully-diluted earnings per share guidance to be between $1.20 and $1.30 on a non-GAAP basis, which excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
The company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels following the Apotex at-risk launch in August 2006 will have a residual impact on PLAVIX net sales and the company's overall financial results into 2007; the amount and duration of which will depend on the amount of generic product Apotex sold into the distribution channels. The company's 2007 guidance range assumes that up to six months of total generic inventory was sold into the distribution channels in August 2006 before the preliminary injunction was granted halting further sales. PLAVIX net sales are expected to increase over time as generic inventory in the distribution channels is depleted.
For 2007, the company expects reductions of net sales for products that have lost exclusivity in previous years to moderate to a range between $900 million and $1.0 billion, as compared to $1.4
 
billion in 2006, and $1.3 billion in 2005. While the company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate inventory in the market to have a continued residual impact on 2007 PLAVIX net sales, the company does expect PLAVIX net sales and earnings growth in 2007, assuming the absence of renewed or additional generic competition. The company expects increased prescription demand for PLAVIX as well as for other key brands and newly launched products. Compared to 2006, the gross margin is expected to improve due to net sales growth of higher margin products, lower margin erosion related to exclusivity losses, and manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing, selling and administrative expense is expected to remain relatively unchanged as the company continues to focus on high value primary care and specialist physicians and implements various productivity initiatives. The company expects to continue to increase investments to develop additional new compounds and support the introduction of new products.
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations in addition to the pending PLAVIX litigation, described below. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of the pending PLAVIX patent litigation, these other litigations and investigations and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's GAAP and non-GAAP guidance for 2007 described above does not reflect the potential impact of either the pending PLAVIX patent litigation as described below or the impact of any other legal matters on the company's results of operations for 2007, beyond current reserves for ongoing matters.
As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S. with Apotex. The trial in the patent litigation began on January 22, 2007. If Apotex were to prevail in the trial in the patent litigation, the company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX promptly thereafter. There are other pending PLAVIX patent litigations in the United States and in other less significant markets for the product. The company continues to believe that the PLAVIX patents are valid and infringed, and with sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases.
 
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the patent litigation with Apotex or of the other PLAVIX patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX and/or the development of sustained generic competition would be material to the company's sales of PLAVIX, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the company's financial condition and liquidity. PLAVIX is the company's largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for PLAVIX were $2.7 billion and $3.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the pending PLAVIX patent litigation with Apotex. The company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the company. It is also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the company's compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (USAO). Also as previously disclosed, the USAO initiated an investigation that is being conducted by the Monitor and the USAO into the company's negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex. This investigation includes a review of corporate governance issues and whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the previously disclosed Consent Order the company entered into with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2004 (SEC Consent). It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the company.
As previously disclosed, in December 2006, the company, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts have reached an agreement in principle, subject to approval by the DOJ, to settle several investigations involving the company's drug pricing, and sales and marketing activities. The agreement in principle provides for a civil resolution and an expected payment of $499 million. There would be no criminal charges against the company. The agreement in principle also provides for the company to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The settlement is contingent upon the parties' agreement to the terms of a final settlement agreement, including on the terms of the corporate integrity agreement, and approval by the DOJ. There can be no assurance that the settlement will be
 
finalized. As a result of the agreement in principle, the company in the fourth quarter of 2006 increased its reserves related to these investigations by $353 million, bringing the aggregate reserves for these matters to $499 million.
For additional discussion of legal matters, including the PLAVIX patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see "Item 1. Financial Statements Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis  SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement" in the company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 2006.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; costs of early debt retirement; and significant tax events, including the repatriation of special dividends pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These
 
factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and the unpredictability of the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether the company will prevail at trial in the patent litigation with Apotex, as well as any risks associated with the criminal investigation conducted by the Department of Justice in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex, and the launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by Apotex, including the amount of generic product distributed and the rate at which it will be utilized by prescription demand, and the time-period in which it will impact the company's results. These factors also include the ability to realize projected cost savings and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on January 25, 2007 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4911. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, or Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of Imclone Systems Incorporated
EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
GLEEVEC is a trademark of Novartis, Inc.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total (both retail and mail-order customers) prescription growth, for the comparative periods presented, for certain of the company's U.S. primary care pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
** Change is in excess of 200%
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended December 31, 2006
 
Three months ended December 31, 2005
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2006
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales does not tie to Total Company sales.
 
As a result, the sum of segment sales does not tie to Total Company sales.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2006
 
Three months ended December 31, 2005
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2006
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2005
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the full year 2006 was 66.8%, which included specified items of $167 million and had a 0.9% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, 2006 gross margin was 67.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2007 to be at least 100 basis points higher than 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the full year 2006 were $3,067 million, which included specified items of $85 million. On a non-GAAP basis, 2006 research and development expenses were $2,982 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2007 to increase in the upper single digit range compared to 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See R&D non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis in 2006 was 23.1%, which included specified items of $110 million, and had a 1.3% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, 2006 effective tax rate was 21.8%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2007 to be in line with the 2006 rate. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2007 would include specified items that may occur and impact results. These specified items could include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals and restructuring activities. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Fourth Quarter and Twelve Months of 2006, January 25, 2007, including "2007 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The following table sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and September 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux and Orencia, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
 
 
The following table, which was posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K on November 30, 2006, sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and June 30, 2006 and 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the United States. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.


