FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070625164643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
As previously reported, on August 31, 2006 the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the "Court") granted a preliminary injunction (the "Preliminary Injunction") ordering Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, "Apotex") to halt sales of a generic version of clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with PLAVIX
. The Preliminary Injunction was obtained by Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership (the "Partnership") and the other plaintiffs in Case Number 02-CV-2255 (the "Case"). The Court ordered the plaintiffs to post a bond in the amount of $400 million to provide security to Apotex should the Court conclude at the end of the patent litigation that the injunction was wrongly imposed. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") arranged for the issuance, on behalf of the Partnership, of a surety bond (the "Bond") in the amount of $200 million (the "Bond Amount") in connection with the Preliminary Injunction. The Bond was issued pursuant to surety arrangements (the "Surety Arrangements") with Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America (the "Surety"). Under the Bond, the Surety undertook to pay the costs and damages the Court may have decided the defendants in the Case had incurred or suffered by reason of the Preliminary Injunction in an amount up to but not exceeding the Bond Amount if the Court had ruled that the defendants were wrongfully enjoined or restrained.
Among other things, the Surety Arrangements (i) obligated the Company to pay all premiums for each bond furnished by the Surety pursuant to the Surety Arrangements; (ii) required the Company to indemnify the Surety from all loss, cost and expense of whatever kind, including unpaid premiums, interest, court costs and counsel fees, as well as any expense incurred or sustained by reason of making any investigation which the Surety may incur or sustain as a result of or in connection with the furnishing of bonds and the assumption of obligations of the Surety of bonds (collectively, "Loss") and reimburse the Surety for all sums paid on account of any Loss and/or to deposit with the Surety, on demand, the amount of any reserve against any Loss, (iii) secured the Company's obligation to the Surety with respect to the Bond by $200 million in cash collateral pledged by the Company and (iv) in the event of a claim on the Bond, required the Company to satisfy its indemnity obligation to the Surety either by directing the Surety to draw upon the pledged collateral to satisfy the claim or by using its own funds to pay the claim. Under the Surety Arrangements, the Company's obligation to indemnify the Surety was not contingent upon, and could not be delayed by the exercise of, any rights that the Company had against sanofi-aventis ("sanofi") under their existing sharing arrangements. The foregoing description of the Surety Arrangements is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Surety Arrangements, copies of which were filed as Exhibits 10bb, 10cc, 10dd and 10ee to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 5, 2006.
On June 19, 2007, the Court upheld the validity and enforceability of U.S. patent 4,847,265 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, the active ingredient in Plavix, maintaining the main patent protection for this product in the United States until November 2011. The Court also ruled that Apotex's generic clopidogrel bisulfate infringes sanofi's patent, and has enjoined Apotex from marketing this product in the United States until the patent expires.
On June 21, 2007, the Court ordered release of the Bond and release of the Surety from any liability in connection with the Bond. As a result, the Company's obligations under the Surety Arrangements with respect to the Bond were effectively terminated. The Surety Arrangements, which provide generally for the issuance of surety bonds from time to time, will remain in effect.
 
On June 19, 2007, the Company and sanofi issued a press release announcing that the Court has upheld the validity and enforceability of U.S. patent 4,847,265 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, the active ingredient in Plavix, maintaining the main patent protection for this product in the United States until November 2011. The Court also ruled that Apotex's generic clopidogrel bisulfate infringes sanofi's patent, and has enjoined Apotex from marketing this product in the United States until the patent expires.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, June 19, 2007) Sanofi-aventis (Paris Bourse: EURONEXT: SAN; and New York: NYSE: SNY) and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (New York: NYSE: BMY) announced today that the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York has upheld the validity and enforceability of U.S. patent 4,847,265 covering , the active ingredient in Plavix, maintaining the main patent protection for this product in the United States until November 2011.
clopidogrel bisulfate
The Court also ruled that Apotex's generic infringes sanofi-aventis' patent, and has enjoined Apotex from marketing this product in the United States until the patent expires.
clopidogrel bisulfate
About sanofi-aventis
Sanofi-aventis is one of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies, ranking number one in Europe. Backed by a world-class R&D organisation, sanofi-aventis is developing leading positions in seven major therapeutic areas: cardiovascular, thrombosis, oncology, metabolic diseases, central nervous system, internal medicine and vaccines. Sanofi-aventis is listed in Paris (EURONEXT: SAN) and in New York (NYSE: SNY).
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
Forward Looking Statements
For sanofi-aventis
This press release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. These statements include financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives, intentions and expectations with respect to future events, operations, products and services, and statements regarding future performance. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans" and similar expressions. Although sanofi-aventis' management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that forward-looking information and statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of sanofi-aventis, that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include risks that may arise from the outcome of any appeal, the adverse impact of generic product distributed into the market by Apotex, the potential launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by other entities, as well as those discussed or identified in the public filings with the SEC and the AMF made by sanofi-aventis, including those listed under "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in sanofi-aventis' annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than as required by applicable law, sanofi-aventis does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking information or statements.
For Bristol-Myers Squibb
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things risks that may arise from the outcome of any appeal, the adverse impact of generic product distributed into the market by Apotex and the potential launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by other entities. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


