FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070928144743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On September 28, 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it has finalized a civil settlement agreement with the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts resolving the previously disclosed investigations that began several years ago involving the Company's drug pricing, and sales and marketing activities. In connection with the settlement, the Company has entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services ("OIG") that provides for, among other obligations, the continued development and maintenance of the Company's compliance programs relating to the Company's U.S. pharmaceuticals business.
As previously announced, the agreement provides for a civil resolution and payment of $499 million the full amount of which has been reserved. There are no criminal charges against the Company. The agreement will not affect the Company's ongoing business with any customers, including the government.
A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK (September 28, 2007)Bristol-Myers Squibb Company announced today that it has finalized a civil settlement agreement with the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts resolving the previously disclosed investigations that began several years ago involving the company's drug pricing, and sales and marketing activities. The company announced in December 2006 that an agreement in principle had been reached. In connection with the settlement, the company has entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services ("OIG") that provides for, among other obligations, the continued development and maintenance of the company's compliance programs relating to the company's U.S. pharmaceuticals business.
As previously announced, the agreement provides for a civil resolution and payment of $499 million, the full amount of which has been reserved. There are no criminal charges against the company. The agreement will not affect the company's ongoing business with any customers, including the government.
Bristol-Myers Squibb is pleased to have resolved these matters from the past and is proud of its commitment to conduct business with the highest standards of integrity in its mission to extend and enhance human life.
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


