FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070309171634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On March 6, 2007, the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") elected Michael Grobstein to its Board of Directors. His election is effective March 6, 2007. Mr. Grobstein was appointed to the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. He will stand for election by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2007. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to eleven in connection with the election. Mr. Grobstein was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other persons. A copy of the press release announcing his election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On March 7, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company amended its Bylaws to remove reference to an Executive Committee of the Board of Directors and to specifically provide for the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
The Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as amended as of March 7, 2007, is attached to this report as Exhibit 3b.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3b
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, (March 6, 2007)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected Michael Grobstein, retired Vice Chairman, Ernst & Young, to the Board. His appointment is effective today. Grobstein will serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
Grobstein, 64, was employed by Ernst & Young for 34 years. During his career there, he held various client service and management positions, including serving as a Vice Chairman for 14 years until his retirement from the firm. Grobstein currently is on the Board of Given Imaging Ltd., where he is chairman of the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee. He also served as chairman of the Audit Committee of Guidant Corporation until it was acquired by Boston Scientific.
"Bristol-Myers Squibb will benefit greatly from Mike's breadth of financial and business experience," said James D. Robinson III, chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We are looking forward to his expertise and insight as a key member of the Audit Committee."
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


