FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070426102222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, April 26, 2007)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2007 and raised earnings guidance for the full year.
Bristol-Myers Squibb posted first quarter 2007 net sales of $4.5 billion, compared to $4.7 billion for the same period in 2006. The company reported first quarter 2007 net earnings of $690 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), compared to $714 million, or $0.36 per diluted share for the same period in 2006. The company's first quarter 2006 results included a $200 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the DOVONEX assets. On a non-GAAP basis excluding specified items, first quarter 2007 net earnings were $744 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $637 million, or $0.32 per diluted share for the same period in 2006. The first quarter 2007 results were driven by growth in demand for several pharmaceutical products, lower than expected operating expenses and a favorable tax rate, including a tax benefit due to a favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
"Our strong first quarter resulted from a combination of factors, including increased demand for several of our pharmaceutical products," said Jim Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "PLAVIX performed better than expected, due to accelerated U.S. prescription growth for the molecule as we continue to recapture market share while remaining generic inventory is depleted. Our first-quarter performance enables us both to reinvest in our key products and raise our full-year earnings guidance by $0.12 and $0.10 on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, respectively."
NEW PRODUCT AND PIPELINE DEVELOPMENTS
On April 26, the company and Pfizer Inc (Pfizer) announced a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban, an anticoagulant discovered by the company being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions. Terms of the apixaban agreement include an upfront payment of $250 million by Pfizer to the company. Pfizer will fund 60% of all development costs effective January 1, 2007 going forward, and the company will fund 40%. The company may also receive additional payments of up to $750 million based on development and regulatory milestones. The companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy of apixaban, and will share commercialization expenses and profits/losses equally on a global basis. In a separate agreement, the companies will also collaborate on the research, development and commercialization of Pfizer's discovery program which includes advanced pre-clinical compounds with potential applications for the treatment of metabolic disorders, including obesity and diabetes. Pfizer will be responsible for all research and early-stage development activities for the metabolic disorders program, and the companies will jointly conduct Phase III development and commercialization activities. The company will make an upfront payment of $50 million to Pfizer as part of this agreement. The companies will share all development and commercialization expenses along with profits/losses on a 60%-40% basis, with Pfizer assuming the larger share of both expenses and profit/losses.
On March 22, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency granted a positive opinion on the company's application for ORENCIA in Europe for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
 
On April 25, the company announced that the U.S. FDA approved an update to the ORENCIA
product labeling regarding the progression of structural joint damage  an important measure in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The indication was strengthened from "slowing" to "inhibiting" the progression of structural damage in adult patients with moderately to severely active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, such as methotrexate or tumor necrosis factor antagonists.
On April 18, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Cardio-Renal Advisory Committee voted unanimously to recommend approval of a new indication for AVALIDE, as initial treatment of hypertension. AVALIDE, a fixed-dose combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, is currently approved for the treatment of hypertension, for hypertensive patients with blood pressure uncontrolled on monotherapy. If approved, the new indication for AVALIDE would be for the first-line treatment of hypertension in patients who are unlikely to obtain their blood pressure goals on monotherapy.
On February 5, Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone announced that an application was submitted to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency for the use of ERBITUX in treating patients with advanced colorectal cancer. The Japanese submission was based on results from studies conducted in Europe and Japan which confirm the activity of ERBITUX in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The filing in Japan is a result of a development collaboration between Bristol-Myers Squibb, ImClone and Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany.
In February, BARACLUDE was added to the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease treatment guidelines for hepatitis B as a first-line treatment option. BARACLUDE also received approval and/or reimbursement in additional key European markets throughout the first quarter, including Italy.
SPRYCEL received approval and/or reimbursement in additional European markets, including Ireland, Norway, Sweden and Greece during the first quarter, and was also approved in Canada and New Zealand.
 
FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME TAXES
The effective income tax rate on earnings before minority interest and income taxes was 9.4% in the first quarter of 2007 compared to 27.5% in the first quarter of 2006. The first quarter 2007 effective tax rate included $105 million of benefit due to a favorable resolution of certain tax matters, including a $39 million benefit related to a prior year specified item.
 
SPECIFIED ITEMS
In the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, the company recorded specified income and expense items that affected the comparability of the results.
The pre-tax specified items before minority interest in 2007 included:
 
 
In addition, a benefit of $39 million was recognized to reflect a change in estimate for taxes on a prior year specified item.
The pre-tax specified items in 2006 included:
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information on specified items, see Appendix 1. Details reconciling these non-GAAP amounts with GAAP amounts including specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
PHARMACEUTICALS
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 7%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3.5 billion in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales decreased 6% to $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, largely due to the loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL and lower sales of PLAVIX, partially offset by continued growth of other key products and sales of newer products ORENCIA and SPRYCEL In aggregate, estimated U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of the company's key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of the first quarter decreased to less than two and a half weeks.
.
International pharmaceutical sales decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1.5 billion for the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. The decrease
 
was due primarily to a decline in PRAVACHOL and TAXOL sales resulting from increased generic competition, partially offset by strong sales growth in REYATAZ, BARACLUDE, ABILIFY and SPRYCEL. The company's reported international sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, for PLAVIX and AVAPRO/AVALIDE, which continue to show growth in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006.
Product Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE GROUP
The combined first quarter 2007 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 4% to $1.0 billion compared to the same period in 2006.
 
Nutritionals
 
Other Health Care
 
 
2007 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb raises its 2007 earnings guidance for fully-diluted earnings per share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis to be between $1.24 and $1.34 from the previous guidance of $1.12 to $1.22.
The company also raises its 2007 fully-diluted earnings per share guidance on a non-GAAP basis to be between $1.30 and $1.40 from the previous guidance of $1.20 to $1.30, reflecting strong first quarter performance and a lower forecasted tax rate. The non-GAAP guidance excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
 
The company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels following the Apotex at-risk launch in August 2006 will continue to have a declining residual impact on PLAVIX net sales and the company's overall financial results at least through the second quarter of 2007. While the company cannot estimate with certainty the full amount and duration of the impact, the potential variability around the estimate of the impact has been factored into the company's 2007 guidance range, assuming the absence of renewed or additional generic competition.
For 2007, the company expects reductions of net sales for products that have lost exclusivity in previous years to moderate to a range between $900 million and $1.0 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion in 2006, and $1.3 billion in 2005. While the company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate inventory in the market to have a continued residual impact on 2007 PLAVIX net sales, the company does expect PLAVIX net sales and earnings growth in 2007, assuming the absence of renewed or additional generic competition. The company expects increased prescription demand for PLAVIX as well as for other key brands and newly launched products. Compared to 2006, the gross margin is expected to improve due to net sales growth of higher margin products, lower margin erosion related to exclusivity losses, and manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing, selling and administrative expense is expected to remain relatively unchanged as the company continues to focus on high value primary care and specialist physicians and implements various productivity initiatives. The company expects to continue to increase investments to develop additional new compounds and support the introduction of new products.
The company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations in addition to the pending PLAVIX litigation, described below. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of the pending PLAVIX patent litigation, these other litigations and investigations and other legal matters affecting the company is reasonably likely to be material to the company's results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The company's GAAP and non-GAAP guidance for 2007 described above does not reflect the potential impact of either the pending PLAVIX patent litigation as described below or the impact of any other legal matters on the company's results of operations for 2007, beyond current reserves for ongoing matters.
 
As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S. with Apotex. The trial testimony ended on February 15, 2007 and the parties are awaiting the court's decision. If Apotex were to prevail in the trial in the patent litigation, the company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX promptly thereafter. There are other pending PLAVIX patent litigations in the United States and in other less significant markets for the product. The company continues to believe that the PLAVIX patents are valid and infringed, and with its alliance partner, sanofi-aventis, is vigorously pursuing these cases.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the patent litigation with Apotex or of the other PLAVIX patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX and/or the development of sustained generic competition would be material to the company's sales of PLAVIX, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the company's financial condition and liquidity. PLAVIX is the company's largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for PLAVIX were $2.7 billion and $3.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) is conducting a criminal investigation into the proposed settlement and the company has received a Civil Investigative Demand by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting documents related to the proposed settlement. In addition, on April 13, 2007, the company received a subpoena from the New York State Attorney General's Office  Antitrust Bureau for documents relating to the proposed PLAVIX settlement. The company is cooperating fully with the investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigations or its impact on the company. It is also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigations, if any, on the company's compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey.
 
As previously disclosed, in December 2006, the company, the DOJ and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts have reached an agreement in principle, subject to approval by the DOJ, to settle several investigations involving the company's drug pricing, and sales and marketing activities. The agreement in principle provides for a civil resolution and an expected payment of $499 million, which is fully reserved. There would be no criminal charges against the company. The agreement in principle also provides for the company to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The settlement is contingent upon the parties' agreement to the terms of a final settlement agreement, including on the terms of the corporate integrity agreement, and approval by the DOJ. There can be no assurance that the settlement will be finalized.
For additional discussion of legal matters, including the PLAVIX patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see "Item 1. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis  SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement" in the company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale or write-down of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 112 for severance and SFAS 146 for other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges under SFAS 144 related to restructuring items described above; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; copromotion or alliance charges and payments for in-process research and development which under GAAP are immediately expensed rather than amortized over the life of the agreement; income from upfront and milestone payments that is immediately recognized for out-licensing of products, including deferred income recognized upon termination; costs of early debt retirement; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, a non-GAAP earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing and sales, patent positions and the unpredictability of the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether the company will prevail at trial in the patent litigation with Apotex, as well as any risks associated with the criminal investigation conducted by the Department of Justice, the civil investigation conducted by the Federal Trade Commission, or the investigation conducted by the New York State Attorney General's Office in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex, and the launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by Apotex, including the amount of generic product distributed and the rate at which it will be utilized by prescription demand, and the time-period in which it will impact the company's results. These factors also include the ability to realize projected cost savings and the expiration of patents on certain other products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the annual report on Form 10-K, furnished to and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on April 26, 2007 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live webcast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-981-4911. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
 
For more information, contact: Tony Plohoros, 212-546-4379, Communications, Jeff Macdonald, 212-546-4824, Communications, or John Elicker, 212-546-3775, or Blaine Davis, 212-546-4631, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
 
 
 
The following table set forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2006. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1
Three months ended March 31, 2007
 
Three months ended March 31, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2007
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Research and Development/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was 68.9%, which included specified items of $16 million and had a 0.4% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2007 gross margin was 69.3%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2007 to be at least 100 basis points higher than 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 were $807 million, which included specified items of $80 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2007 research and development expenses were $727 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2007 to increase in the mid to upper single digit range compared to 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See R&D non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was 9.4%, which included specified items of $79 million in the tax provision, and had a 6.3% favorable impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, the three months ended March 31, 2007 effective tax rate was 15.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2007 to be in the 20% range. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2007 would include specified items that may occur and impact results. These specified items could include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The First Quarter of 2007, April 26, 2007, including "2007 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The following tables sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2006 annual net sales) sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 and December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux and Orencia, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third-party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
(a) In the first and second quarter of 2006, the Company sold Erbitux to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and shipped Erbitux directly to the end-users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company expanded its distribution model to include two distributors who then held Erbitux inventory. One additional distributor was added for Erbitux in the first quarter of 2007. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy. The above estimate of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of Erbitux held by the distributors for their own accounts as reported by the distributors as of the end of the quarter by the out-movements of the product reported by the distributors over the last 31 day period. The inventory levels reported by the distributors are a product of their record-keeping process.
(b) Orencia was launched in February 2006. From launch through the second quarter, the Company distributed Orencia through an exclusive distribution arrangement with a single distributor. Following approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) that allows a third party to manufacture Orencia at an additional site, the exclusive distribution arrangement terminated on July 17, 2006 and the Company expanded its distribution network for ORENCIA to multiple distributors. The above estimates of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of Orencia held by these distributors at the end of the quarter by the out-movement of the product over the last 31 day period, as reported by these distributors. The inventory on hand and out-movements reported by these distributors are a product of the distributors' own record-keeping process.
(c) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy, Atripla. The estimated months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesale distribution channel only include branded Sustiva inventory.


