FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20070531172203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the first quarter of 2007 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at . This supplemental information has been revised to include net sales, months on hand, and estimated demand information for key products and growth drivers as of March 31, 2007 for the Company's International Pharmaceutical, Nutritionals and Other Health Care reporting segments. Net sales and months on hand information is also provided as of December 31, 2006, March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. The revised supplemental information is furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.2.     Certain supplemental information posted on Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's website at
www.bms.com
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2007
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Research and Development/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was 68.9%, which included specified items of $16 million and had a 0.4% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2007 gross margin was 69.3%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2007 to be at least 100 basis points higher than 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See Gross Margin non comparable tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 were $807 million, which included specified items of $80 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2007 research and development expenses were $727 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2007 to increase in the mid to upper single digit range compared to 2006. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See R&D non comparable tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was 9.4%, which included specified items of $79 million in the tax provision, and had a 6.3% favorable impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, the three months ended March 31, 2007 effective tax rate was 15.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2007 to be in the 20% range. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See Tax Rate non comparable tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2007 would include specified items that may occur and impact results. These specified items could include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The First Quarter of 2007, April 26, 2007, including "2007 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The following tables sets forth, for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2006 annual net sales) sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 and December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
For all products other than Erbitux and Orencia, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third-party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
Estimates of product in the wholesaler distribution channel and out-movement are based on weekly information received directly from third-parties, and excludes any inventory held by intermediaries such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over a period of 31 days by using the most recent out-movement of a product as provided by these third parties, adjusted to reflect the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders and the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders.
(a) In the first and second quarter of 2006, the Company sold Erbitux to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and shipped Erbitux directly to the end-users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company expanded its distribution model to include two distributors who then held Erbitux inventory. One additional distributor was added for Erbitux in the first quarter of 2007. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy. The above estimate of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of Erbitux held by the distributors for their own accounts as reported by the distributors as of the end of the quarter by the out-movements of the product reported by the distributors over the last 31 day period. The inventory levels reported by the distributors are a product of their record-keeping process.
(b) Orencia was launched in February 2006. From launch through the second quarter, the Company distributed Orencia through an exclusive distribution arrangement with a single distributor. Following approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) that allows a third party to manufacture Orencia at an additional site, the exclusive distribution arrangement terminated on July 17, 2006 and the Company expanded its distribution network for ORENCIA to multiple distributors. The above estimates of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of Orencia held by these distributors at the end of the quarter by the out-movement of the product over the last 31 day period, as reported by these distributors. The inventory on hand and out-movements reported by these distributors are a product of the distributors' own record-keeping process.
(c) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy, Atripla. The estimated months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesale distribution channel only include branded Sustiva inventory.
U.S. Pharmaceuticals
Estimated End-User Demand
The following tables set forth for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2006 annual net sales) sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the same periods in the prior year: (i) changes in reported U.S. net sales for the period; (ii) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail order channels calculated by the Company based on NGPS version 2.0 data on a weighted average basis; and (iii) the estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product calculated by the Company based on NGPS version 2.0 data on a weighted-average basis. Prior year prescription data has been adjusted to conform to the NGPS version 2.0 data.
 
The Company is reporting REYATAZ's estimated TRx category share within the antiretrovirals - third agents (excluding NORVIR* and TRIZIVIR*) category rather than the protease inhibitors (excluding NORVIR*) category. The Company believes that the antiretrovirals - third agents (excluding NORVIR* and TRIZIVIR*) category more closely reflects the use of protease inhibitors, which has evolved and competes with other products within the antiretrovirals - third agents (excluding NORVIR* and TRIZIVIR*) category. The historical trends of growth in REYATAZ's estimated TRx category share between the two categories are not materially different.
The estimated prescription change data and estimated therapeutic category share reported throughout this Form 10-Q only include information from the retail and mail order channels and do not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long-term care, among others. The data provided by IMS are a product of IMS' own record-keeping processes and are themselves estimates based on sampling procedures, subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling.
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
The following tables set forth for each of the Company's top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2006 annual net sales) sold by the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 and December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
In October 2004, the U.S. pediatric exclusivity period for PARAPLATIN expired. The resulting entry of multiple generic competitors for PARAPLATIN led to a significant decrease in demand for PARAPLATIN, which in turn led to the months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeding one month on hand at March 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2006. The estimated value of PARAPLATIN inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over one month on hand was approximately $0.4 million at March 31, 2007, $0.6 million at December 31, 2006 and $0.9 million at March 31, 2006. The Company no longer produces PARAPLATIN for the U.S. market and will continue to monitor PARAPLATIN wholesaler inventory levels until they have been depleted.
SPRYCEL was launched in the U.S. in July 2006. Consistent with customary practice at the time of a new product launch, the Company's U.S. wholesalers built inventories of the product to meet expected demand, and at December 31, 2006, the estimated value of SPRYCEL inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.4 million. As of March 31, 2007, SPRYCEL inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel has been worked down to less than one month on hand.
For all products other than ERBITUX* and ORENCIA, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third-party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates.
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. Pharmaceuticals wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Company's three largest wholesaler customers provide the Company with weekly information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products. These three wholesalers accounted for nearly 90% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products in the first quarter of 2007. The inventory information received from these wholesalers excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company uses the information provided by these three wholesalers as of the Friday closest to quarter end to calculate the amount of inventory on hand for these wholesalers at the applicable quarter end. This amount is then increased by the Company's estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers based on the Company's records of sales to these wholesalers, which have not been reflected in the weekly data provided by the wholesalers. Under the Company's revenue recognition policy, sales are recorded when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, which in the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business is generally when product is shipped. In such cases, goods in transit to a wholesaler are owned by the applicable wholesaler and, accordingly, are reflected in the calculation of inventories in the wholesaler distribution channel. The Company determines the out-movement of a product from these wholesalers over a period of 31 days by using the most recent four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers and extrapolating such amount to a 31 day basis. The Company estimates for each product, inventory levels on hand and out-movements for all its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business wholesaler customers, by adjusting the three largest wholesalers' inventory levels and out-movements by a factor that approximates the other remaining wholesalers' percentage share of total gross sales for such product in the U.S. In addition, the Company receives inventory information from these other wholesalers on a selective basis for certain key products.
The Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals business through the IMAs discussed above, has arrangements with substantially all of its direct wholesaler customers and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory at levels that are no more than one month of their demand.
ORENCIA was launched in February 2006. From launch through the second quarter, the Company distributed ORENCIA through an exclusive distribution arrangement with a single distributor. Following approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application that allows a third party to manufacture ORENCIA at an additional site, the exclusive distribution arrangement terminated on July 17, 2006 and the Company expanded its distribution network for ORENCIA to multiple distributors. The above estimates of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of ORENCIA held by these distributors at the end of the quarter by the out-movement of the product over the last 31 day period, as reported by these distributors. The inventory on hand and out-movements reported by these distributors are a product of the distributors' own record-keeping processes.
 
In the first and second quarter of 2006, the Company sold ERBITUX* to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and shipped ERBITUX* directly to the end-users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company expanded its distribution model to include two distributors who then held ERBITUX* inventory. One additional distributor was added for ERBITUX* in the first quarter of 2007. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy.
The above estimate of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of ERBITUX* held by the distributors for their own accounts as reported by the distributors as of the end of the quarter by the out-movements of the product reported by the distributors over the last 31 day period. The inventory levels reported by the distributors are a product of their record-keeping process.
International Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key pharmaceutical products and other growth drivers sold by the Company's International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company's major non-U.S. countries (based on 2006 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below, the percentage change in the Company's estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the months of March 2007 and December 2006 compared to the same period in the prior year.
 
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
The following table sets forth for each of the Company's key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2007, December 31, 2006, March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Company's significant business units outside of the U.S. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimis. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the U.S. and all significant business units outside of the U.S.
 
The above months on hand information represents the Company's estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company's estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand for these reporting segments. Where available, the Company relies on information provided by third parties to determine estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers and expected demand. For the reporting segments listed above; however, the Company has limited information on direct customer product level inventory, end-user consumption and direct customer out-movement data. Further, the quality of third-party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new products or seasonal products, such historical end-user consumption or out-movement information may not be available or applicable. In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand.
As of March 31, 2006, BARACLUDE, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand was due primarily to stocking of the product in support of the recent launch in China.
As of March 31, 2007, March 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.2, 1.4 and 1.2 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand was due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing DAFALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, EFFERALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 and 1.2 months of inventory on hand respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand was due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing EFFERALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of March 31, 2006, MONOPRIL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand was due primarily to supply of the product in support of its inclusion in a government program in Russia.
As of March 31, 2006, PRAVACHOL, a cardiovascular product, had approximately 1.5 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand was due primarily to an increase in orders from a significant direct customer in France.
As of March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.1 and 1.4 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand was due primarily to government purchasing patterns in Brazil. The Company is contractually obligated to provide VIDEX/VIDEX EC to the Brazilian government upon placement of an order for product by the government. Under the terms of the contract, the Company has no control over the inventory levels relating to such orders.
As of December 31, 2005, NUTRAMIGEN, infant nutritional products sold principally in the U.S., had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand at the end of the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was due primarily to holiday stocking by retailers.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct customers including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties' data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties' data in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals business.


