FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20071204173439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On December 4, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, elected Alan J. Lacy to serve as a member of the Board of Directors. His election is effective January 2, 2008. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to ten in connection with Mr. Lacy's election.
Mr. Lacy serves as a senior advisor to Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P., a private equity investment firm. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Lacy is independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards and the under the independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors. Mr. Lacy will serve as a member of the Audit Committee. He will stand for election by the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2008.
Mr. Lacy was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. There are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. Lacy.
Mr. Lacy will receive compensation for his services on the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors, including an annual retainer of $55,000, a per meeting fee of $2,000 and an annual award of 3,500 deferred share units under the 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Lacy's election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, (December 4, 2007)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that Alan J. Lacy has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective January 2, 2008. Lacy will serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
Lacy, 54, is currently a senior advisor to Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P., a private equity investment firm. From 1994 to 2006, he was employed by Sears, Roebuck and Co. and following the acquisition of the company, Sears Holdings Corporation. He held executive level positions of increasing responsibility in finance and operations, including his service as chief executive officer from 2000 to 2005. He also served as vice chairman from 2005 to 2006.
"We are very pleased to have a person of Alan's broad business and financial experience join our Board," said James D. Robinson III, chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "He adds to an already outstanding group of directors."
"Alan is a man of high integrity and business acumen," added James M. Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We look forward to his contributions as a director of our company as we continue to evolve into a next generation biopharma enterprise."
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


