FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20080807164935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On August 1, 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the Company) completed the previously-announced divestiture of the Companys ConvaTec business (the Business) to Cidron Healthcare Limited (the Buyer), an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund VII (Nordic Capital) and Avista Capital Partners (Avista), for a gross purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion in cash.  The purchase price received by the Company included the estimated post-closing purchase price adjustment based on the Companys estimate of the closing working capital of the Business.  Total proceeds receivable from the divestiture are subject to further adjustment based on the actual closing working capital of the Business, pursuant to the terms of the Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated May 2, 2008, between the Company and the Buyer (the Purchase Agreement).
 
The sale of the Business was effected through the transfer to the Buyer of (i) all of the outstanding capital stock of certain of the Companys indirect subsidiaries and (ii) certain specified assets and liabilities of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.  In addition to the cash purchase price and as part of the divestiture, the Buyer assumed certain liabilities relating to the Business.
 
The foregoing descriptions of the Purchase Agreement and the divestiture do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement.  The Purchase Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to, and the terms of the divestiture are described in, the Companys Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2008, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the divestiture is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The Companys Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
The amounts included in the Amounts Transferred to Discontinued Operations column within the Companys Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information represent the Business operating results for the respective periods using the same basis the Company utilizes in its segment reporting.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1           Press Release, dated August 1, 2008
 
99.2           The Companys Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATED: August 7, 2008
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(NEW YORK, August 1, 2008)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) announced today that Nordic Capital Fund VII and Avista Capital Partners have completed their acquisition of ConvaTec, a business unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb.
For nearly 30 years, ConvaTec has been a pioneer in developing and marketing innovative wound therapeutics and ostomy care products that have helped improve the lives of millions of people worldwide.  ConvaTec continues to be at the forefront of the movement to change the way health care professionals are managing chronic and acute wounds, emphasizing the principles of advanced wound healing and evidence-based medicine.  From its headquarters in Skillman, New Jersey, the company oversees more than 3,500 employees in 91 countries serving patients and their healthcare professionals on six continents.
Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Company Inc. served as financial advisors for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Cravath, Swaine & Moore, LLP, served as legal counsel for the company.
Bear, Stearns International Limited acted as financial advisor for Nordic Capital and Avista Capital Partners, JPMorgan plc acted as global coordinator in connection with the debt financing, and White & Case LLP served as legal counsel to Nordic and Avista.
 
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global biopharmaceutical whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.   For more information visit www.bms.com
 
About Nordic Capital
Nordic Capital is a group of private equity funds focusing primarily on investments in the Nordic region. Nordic Capital creates value in its investments through committed ownership and by targeting strategic development and operational improvements. Founded in 1989, Nordic Capital was one of the private equity pioneers in northern Europe and has invested in a large number of Nordic-based companies operating in different sectors.  For more information, please visit
www.nordiccapital.com
 
 
 
 
About Avista Capital Partners
Founded in 2005, Avista Capital Partners is a leading private equity firm with offices in New York, NY and Houston, TX.  Avista's strategy is to make controlling or influential minority investments primarily in growth-oriented energy, healthcare and media companies. Through its team of seasoned investment professionals and industry experts, Avista seeks to partner with exceptional management teams to invest in and add value to well-positioned businesses. For more information, visit .
www.avistacap.com
Contacts:
Brian Henry, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 609-252-3337,
Media:
brian.henry@bms.com
John Elicker, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 212-546-3775, john.elicker@bms.com
Investors:

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


