FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20080219122214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K furnishing its press release that announced the Company's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporating it therein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 was certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
The Company has identified a computational error in the calculation of 2006 annual and quarterly GAAP and non-GAAP gross profit and gross margin for the Pharmaceuticals segment as reported in the supplemental information posted on the Company's website and furnished on Form 8-K on January 31, 2008. The corrected calculation for the Pharmaceuticals segment is set forth below.
This computational error did not affect the Company's consolidated financial results or its consolidated gross profit and gross margin as reported. It also did not impact the calculation of GAAP and non-GAAP gross profit and gross margin for the Pharmaceuticals segment for 2007 annual and quarterly periods.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This Form 8-K/A contains non-GAAP gross profit and gross margin information adjusted to exclude restructuring items that meet the requirements of SFAS 144 for accelerated depreciation charges and asset impairments. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP gross margin information for the Pharmaceuticals segment is an indication of the Pharmaceutical segment's baseline margin before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's and the segment's ongoing results. In addition, certain non-GAAP information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for gross profit or gross margin prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


