FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20080724080635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, July 24, 2008)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported very strong sales and earnings growth for the second quarter 2008 and announced additional plans to proactively manage costs.
"We are making measurable strides against the strategy we outlined for investors last year. In addition to strong sales growth, we are making acquisitions, entering licensing agreements and investing in our pipeline, as we deliver on our commitments to patients and investors," said James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We are also taking steps now to manage through future exclusivity losses. Our improvement initiatives are enabling us to better manage our costs and work more efficiently.
"We are selecting the best of biotech and the best of the pharmaceutical industry and combining these traits into a model which will position us as a next-generation BioPharma leader. As our second quarter 2008 results indicate, we're on the right path to help patients prevail over serious disease both today, and in the future."
 
 
EXPANSION OF PRODUCTIVITY  ADDITIONAL $1 BILLION BY 2012
In December 2007, the company announced a $1.5 billion productivity transformation initiative (PTI) to be completed by 2010. The company is well on track to achieve this goal as underlined by its current margin performance. At the time this initiative was announced, the company indicated this was the first step to achieve a culture focused on continuous improvement.
"As part of the plan to maximize our growth opportunities through 2011 and improve our earnings base in 2012-2013, we have initiated an expansion of our productivity initiatives which will result in an additional $1 billion of cost savings by 2012," said Jean-Marc Huet, senior vice president and chief financial officer. "We have commissioned several internal teams to execute against some already identified projects. We will provide additional information on this second wave of productivity initiatives and its costs by year-end.
"While managing our cost base is critical, it is only one part of our strategy as we transition to a next-generation BioPharma company. We continue to invest to improve the growth of our marketed products and strengthen our pipeline. We are confident that we can deliver on our commitments and improve our base business in 2012-2013."
SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIPELINE AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS
Bristol-Myers Squibb and its partner AstraZeneca announced on July 23 that the regulatory submissions for ONGLYZA (saxagliptin) were made in both the United States and in Europe on June 30 and July 1, respectively. The concurrent European filing further demonstrates the company's commitment to rapidly bring forward new medicines for serious unmet medical needs like type II diabetes.
Bristol-Myers Squibb is focusing on supplementing its internal research and development portfolio with strategic partnerships and acquisitions. In May, the company entered into an agreement with KAI Pharmaceuticals to develop and commercialize KAI's novel acute heart attack medicine, KAI-9803. In June, Bristol-Myers Squibb completed the acquisition of Kosan Biosciences, Inc., a cancer therapeutics company with a library of novel compounds including Hsp90 inhibitors for cancer and microtubule stabilizers, which may have additional potential in neurodegenerative diseases.
The following regulatory and data milestones occurred in the second quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
The company agreed to sell the ConvaTec business for approximately $4.1 billion, subject to customary post closing adjustments, to Avista Capital Partners L.P. and Nordic Capital Fund VII in April 2008. The company expects to close the divestiture agreement by August 2008. The results of the ConvaTec business are included in income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for all periods presented.
2008 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb reaffirms its 2008 earnings guidance for fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis to be between $1.36 and $1.46. The company also reaffirms its 2008 fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations guidance on a non-GAAP basis to be between $1.60 and $1.70. The non-GAAP guidance excludes specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
The company reaffirms guidance that it expects non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations to grow at a minimum of 15 percent compounded annual growth rate, from the 2007 base through 2010 without rebasing for the agreement to sell the ConvaTec business, excluding costs associated with the Productivity Transformation Initiative and other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified.
The 2008 guidance and the three-year compound annual growth rate exclude other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for licensing arrangements; payments for in-process research and development; debt retirement costs; impairments to investments; and significant tax events.
 
The financial guidance for 2008 and the three-year compound annual growth rate exclude the impact of any potential strategic acquisitions and divestitures and further assume that the company and its product partner, sanofi-aventis, maintain U.S. exclusivity for the PLAVIX patent through at least 2010.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative and the company's strategy for Mead Johnson Nutritionals; gains or losses from sale and leaseback of properties and from discontinuations of operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; payments for in-process research and development; impairments to investments; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors (including whether uncertainties in the credit and capital markets or a further deterioration of these markets will lead to future impairments to the company's investment portfolio), competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of,
 
governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether Apotex will prevail in its appeal of the District court's decision in the PLAVIX patent litigation. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its productivity transformation initiatives, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products (including the recent expiration of data protection for PLAVIX in the European Union), and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
There will be a conference call on July 24, 2008 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at www.bms.com/ir or by dialing 913-312-0976, confirmation code 2526349. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Communications, Tracy Furey, 609-252-3208, Communications, John Elicker, 212-546-3775, Investor Relations, or Suketu Desai, 609-252-5796, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone Systems Incorporated
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2007. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
(Continued)
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2008
 
Three months ended June 30, 2007
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2008
 
Six months ended June 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2008
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin/Research and Development/Marketing, Selling and Administrative/Tax Rate Projections Excluding Specified Items
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was 67.9%, which included specified items of $154 million and had a 1.5% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2008 gross margin was 69.4%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2007 and for the six months ended June 30, 2008 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2008 to be essentially flat compared to 2007, and continued improvement in its pharmaceutical margins for 2008 to 2010 driven by rationalization of its manufacturing network. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL ReconciliationJune YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2008 were $1,640 million, which included specified items of $83 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2008 research and development expenses were $1,557 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2007 and for the six months ended June 30, 2008 the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2008 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2007. The Company projects 2008 to 2010 growth to also be in the mid single digit range. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL ReconciliationJune YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2008 were $2,299 million, which included specified items of $37 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2008 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $2,262 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2007 and for the six months ended June 30, 2008 the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses, for the full year 2008 to be flat compared to 2007, and remain flat from 2008 to 2010. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL ReconciliationJune YTD tab
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was 24.2%, which included specified items of $67 million in the tax provision, and had a 0.6% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2008 effective tax rate was 23.6%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2007 and for the six months ended June 30, 2008 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2008 to increase to approximately 24%. The Company projects the effective tax rate for 2009 and 2010 to increase from 2008 levels. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL ReconciliationJune YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2008 would include specified items that may occur and impact results, including restructuring and other charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative. The productivity initiative is expected to generate approximately $1.5 billion in cost reductions and avoidance on a pre-tax basis versus the company's previous strategic plan for 2010. Costs associated with the implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative are estimated to be between $0.9 billion to $1.1 billion on a pre-tax basis, with approximately $500 million expected to be incurred in 2008. The ultimate timing of the recording of the charges cannot be predicted with certainty and will be affected by the occurrence of triggering events for expense recognition under GAAP, among other factors. The GAAP results for the full year 2008 could also include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Second Quarter of 2008, July 24, 2008, including "2008 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects 2008-10 compounded growth rate in earnings per share from continuing operations to be at least 15% compared to 2007 without rebasing 2007 for the agreement to sell the ConvaTec business. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 


