FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20081007194104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
 
On October 6, 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the Company) issued a press release commenting on the announcement made by Eli Lilly and Company earlier on the same day to acquire ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for $70 per share.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Comments on Eli Lilly as New Erbitux Marketing Partner
 
 
Will Receive $1 Billion Upon Completion of Transaction
 
 
PRINCETON, N.J., October 06, 2008 - Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) announced today that it will acquire ImClone Systems (NASDAQ:IMCL) for $70 per share, or approximately $6.5 billion. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) currently owns approximately 16.6 percent of all outstanding shares of ImClone. Based on Bristol-Myers Squibbs ownership of 14.4 million shares of ImClone, the transaction will be worth approximately $1 billion in cash to Bristol-Myers Squibb.
 
We are pleased to have initiated a process that has resulted in the substantial increase of ImClones value for all of its stockholders, said James M. Cornelius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. We are also proud to have contributed to this creation of value by providing commercial and R&D support to the company over the course of our relationship, which will continue now with Eli Lilly, a well-respected research organization.
 
From the beginning, we had viewed our potential acquisition of ImClone as a strategically and financially sound add-on to our oncology business, consolidating a successful relationship that has extended over seven years. We felt it was in the best interest of Bristol-Myers Squibb shareholders not to raise our previous $62/share all cash offer, exercising discipline and evaluating this potential investment within the context of other alternatives open to the company.
 
Looking ahead, we will work closely with Eli Lilly and Company, a company I know well, to continue to bring to patients not only ERBITUX, the important cancer therapy we co-commercialize in the U.S. and Canada with ImClone, and co-develop in Japan with Merck KGaA and ImClone, but other compounds, including IMC-11F8, under development by ImClone to which Bristol-Myers Squibb holds long-term marketing rights.
 
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
 
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.
 


