FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20080310150659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) (c) On March 5, 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company"), announced the appointment and departures of certain officers as follows:
 
 
 
A copy of the press release dated March 5, 2008 announcing Mr. Huet's appointment as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Bonfield's termination and Mr. Bear's retirement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(e) In connection with his election as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Huet and the Company entered into a Letter Agreement executed on March 4, 2008 and effective on March 31, 2008 that provides for the following compensatory arrangements:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Mr. Huet will receive the opportunity to earn an additional 44,000 performance shares under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan pursuant to a special 2008-2010 Long-Term Performance Award Program if he begins his employment on or before March 31, 2008. This special award is available to all executives on a one-time basis in 2008, provided such executives are employed by the company before the end of the first quarter.
A copy of the Letter Agreement between Mr. Huet and the Company executed on March 4, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
In connection with his termination, Mr. Bonfield and the Company entered into a Letter Agreement executed on March 6, 2008 (the "Separation Agreement"). Under the Separation Agreement, Mr. Bonfield will receive the following benefits made available to executives under the Company's various benefits plans:
 
 
 
 
The terms of the Separation Agreement further provide for a general release and other customary provisions. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Company's Board of Directors has approved the terms of the Separation Agreement.
A copy of the Separation Agreement between Mr. Bonfield and the Company executed on March 6, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
(c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
February 28, 2008
Mr. Jean-Marc Huet
1015 BG Amsterdam,
The Netherlands
Dear Mr. Huet,
On behalf of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, I am pleased to extend our offer to you to join the Company as Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer. In this position, you will report to Jim Cornelius, Chief Executive Officer, and you will be a member of the Management Council. Your position will be based in Lawrenceville, New Jersey. I trust that in your conversation with us you have developed a good understanding of the responsibilities and obligations of the position.
Base Salary
Your base salary will be $900,000.00 per year and will be paid bi-weekly. The Bristol-Myers Squibb salary program provides for annual salary reviews. You will be eligible for your first annual review in March of 2009.
Incentive Plan
You will also be a participant in the Bristol-Myers Squibb Performance Incentive Plan, our annual bonus plan. Your salary grade will be E13 and your target award will be 120% of your base salary (applicable target based on grade level). Payment of your bonus will be based on your individual performance while funding of the company bonus pool will be based on the achievement of corporate financial objectives. You will be credited with one-twelfth of your annual bonus opportunity for each month you are employed. If you join the Company on any day other than the first of a given month, you will still be credited with a full month of bonus opportunity (i.e., one-twelfth of your annual bonus for that month). The 2008 bonus is payable in March of 2009.
Bonus Deferment
As an executive of Bristol-Myers Squibb, you are eligible to defer up to 100% of your annual bonus. If you would like to defer all or a portion of your current-year bonus, you must file an election form with Global Compensation within 30 days of your start date. In some cases, there may be tax law restrictions on the amount you may defer in the year you begin working for the Company. Please contact Rich Lodato at 609-252-3225 if you would like more information about the Deferred Compensation Plan and/or to obtain a deferral election form.
Stock Options
Upon joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, you will receive a grant of 290,600 stock options (the "Stock Option Grant") under the Bristol-Myers Squibb 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan ("2007 Stock Plan"). This award includes 195,600 options that were communicated to you originally plus 95,000 additional options. At your request, the additional options are being granted in place of 18,000 restricted stock units that were also communicated to you originally. Grant date shall mean the first business day of the month following your hire date (or your hire date if it falls on the first business day of the month). Shares will vest 25% per year in years one through four following your grant date. You will continue to be eligible to receive an annual stock option award during the course of your employment with Bristol-Myers Squibb beginning in 2009. Annual grants are made in March.
 
Restricted Stock Units
Upon joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, you will receive 16,500 restricted stock units (the "RSU Grant") under the 2007 Stock Plan. Contingent on your continued employment with the Company, these units will vest 25% per year over four years following the grant date. Grant date shall mean the first business day of the month following your hire date (or your hire date if it falls on the first business day of the month). Dividend equivalents will be paid as ordinary income on unvested stock units throughout the vesting period. The RSU Grant is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2007 Stock Plan and the restricted stock unit agreement setting forth the RSU Grant. Pursuant to the vesting of your RSU Grant, RSUs will be settled as soon as administratively practicable by delivery of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, and in no event shall such delivery be later than March 15
th
of the calendar year following the expiration of the applicable vesting period. It is the intention of the preceding sentence that delivery of shares underlying vested RSUs comply with the short-term deferral exemption under IRC Section 409A. You will be eligible to receive RSU grants annually beginning in 2009 consistent with your grade level and based on your performance. Annual grants are generally made in March.
Long-Term Performance Award
You will be eligible to participate in the Long-Term Performance Award Plan, commencing with the 2008-2010 performance period. You will receive an award of 44,000 performance shares under the 2008-2010 Long-Term Performance Award Plan, and you will be eligible to participate in the Plan for the full 36-month performance period. This award is payable in March of 2011. Details of this program will be communicated upon hire. You will be eligible to receive Long-Term Performance Awards annually beginning in 2009 consistent with your grade level and based on your performance. Grants are generally communicated in March and apply to a three-year performance period beginning on January 1
st
of the year in which the grant is communicated.
Transition Payment
You will receive a one-time transition payment of $100,000.00 to be paid within 30 days of your hire date. The company will report this payment as ordinary income subject to regular income tax withholding. Should you terminate your employment voluntarily, other than for "good reason", or if you are terminated "for cause" within twelve months of your start date, you will be required to repay the entirety of this transition payment.
Severance Protection
In the event you terminate involuntarily, other than for cause, or if you terminate for good reason, you will receive a severance benefit equal to two years of base salary, or such greater amount if provided for under the terms and conditions of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Senior Executive Severance Plan ("Severance Plan") at the time of termination, provided you execute a General Release and certain additional restrictive covenants and obligations of you, as described in the Severance Plan.
Vacation
You will be eligible for four weeks of vacation. Vacation is earned at a rate of 10 percent of the annual allotment per month for each full month worked for each calendar year. A full vacation allotment is earned by working ten months of the calendar year, not to exceed 100% of the year's vacation allotment. Employees with a start date on or before the 15
th
day of the month will earn a full month's accrual. Employees with a start date after the 15
th
day of the month will not accrue vacation credit for that month.
Relocation
Under our Relocation Policy, you will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses associated with your move to New Jersey.
Kris Gering Henke in Relocation Services will be managing your relocation. Kris can be reached at 609-419-5523.
 
Benefits Programs and Coverage
You are eligible to participate in the following benefit plans on your first day of employment: the Flexible Benefit Plan (offering choices of medical, dental, reimbursement account plans and employee and dependent life insurance coverages); the Short-Term and Long-Term Disability Plans; the Travel Accident Plan; and long-term care insurance. In addition, you are eligible to participate in two retirement plans: the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program as well as the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan. The Savings and Investment Program is a 401(k) plan that provides company matching contributions after six months of participation; however, you are eligible to enroll in the plan and begin making you own contributions beginning with the first pay period possible after your hire date. The Retirement Income Plan is a pension plan to which you do not make any contributions. With some limited exceptions (e.g., the Retirement Income Plan), you in the benefit plans to be able to participate. Please enroll in the plans within 31 days of your first day of employment. For enrollment and additional benefit information, kindly refer to the enrollment materials which will be provided to you. You will also be able to enroll on line by going to the Benefits Express Web site at . In order to access Benefits Express you will need your new HR ID and HR PIN which will be mailed to you separately. If you have any questions in reference to receiving your benefit enrollment information, please contact the HR Service Center at 1-800-897-9700.
must enroll
https://BenefitsExpress.bms.com
Employment Eligibility (I-9) Documentation
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 requires employers to verify the employment eligibility and identity of all new employees. In accordance with this Act, complete Section 1 of the attached I-9 Form and bring it and the appropriate identifying documents with you on your first day of employment. Please be aware that if any information that you are required to submit is not provided within three (3) business days of beginning employment, this offer may be withdrawn, and if withdrawn, your candidacy for employment with us will be terminated.
Preplacement Fitness-for-Work Evaluation and Background Check
This offer is contingent upon your satisfactory completion of the preplacement fitness-for-work evaluation, including a medical examination and drug test. Please contact Michelle Seabrook in New York at 212-546-2873 to arrange for your preplacement fitness-for-work evaluation. This offer is also contingent upon your satisfactory completion of a background check. After these processes are completed, you will be advised of the results.
Change of Control
Upon joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, you will be eligible to execute a Change-in-Control Agreement.
Invitation to Self-Identify
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a Federal contractor subject to Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Vietnam-era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended. As such, we are required to extend to applicants a post-offer invitation to self-identify as an individual with a disability or status as a covered veteran. Providing this information is voluntary and will be kept confidential in accordance with the law. Refusal to provide it will not have an adverse impact on an individual's employment. This information will be used only in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and our equal opportunity policy.
Confidentiality Agreement
Before beginning work at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, you will be required to sign our employee agreement covering patents, inventions, and confidential information. We also want you to understand that Bristol-Myers Squibb will expect you to retain in confidence and not to disclose to Bristol-Myers Squibb, or use in your employment with us, any confidential information you have obtained from your present or previous employers.
In addition you will be required to complete the Authorization for Release of any information in connection with the Employment Application Form. These forms will be sent to you under separate cover.
 
This offer is contingent upon our understanding that you have no contractual commitments or limitations that would prevent you from fulfilling the requirements for this role, and successful completion of formal references. As a Bristol-Myers Squibb employee, you will be an employee at will.
We look forward to your joining Bristol-Myers Squibb and hope you will find this offer satisfactory in every respect. Please sign the extra copy of "Page 5" enclosed and return it for our files. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me at 212-546-4829.
 
 
I accept this offer with the terms and conditions as outlined in this letter:
 

Exhibit 10.2
March 5, 2008
Mr. Andrew Bonfield
c/o Bristol Myers Squibb Co.
345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154
Dear Andrew:
This Letter Agreement will confirm the terms and conditions of your employment and separation from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. If you agree to enter into this Letter Agreement, subject to all of the following terms and conditions, you will be provided with the following compensation and benefits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YOUR SIGNATURE BELOW ACKNOWLEDGES THAT YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE, UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE SIGNING, AND ARE SIGNING IT VOLUNTARILY AND ACTING OF YOUR OWN FREE WILL. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT, IF ANY PROVISION OF THIS LETTER AGREEMENT IS FOUND TO BE INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, IT WILL NOT AFFECT THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION. YOU FURTHER AGREE THAT THIS LETTER AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW RULES. YOU ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE COMPANY HAS ADVISED AND HEREBY ADVISES YOU IN WRITING TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY AND OTHER ADVISORS OF YOUR CHOICE PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT.
Please indicate your acceptance of this Letter Agreement by signing and returning it to me.
 
 
 
Supplemental General Release by Andrew Bonfield ("Mr. Bonfield") in his capacity as an individual and on behalf of his heirs, executors, administrators, attorneys, agents, successors and assigns of all claims against Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, (the "Company"), and any affiliates, parent companies and subsidiaries, and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees and agents (collectively the "Released Parties").
In exchange for the payments and other consideration set forth in paragraph 2 of the Letter Agreement between Mr. Bonfield and the Company dated March 5, 2008, (the "Letter Agreement"), and other valuable consideration, Mr. Bonfield waives any and all rights to sue and/or make any claims against the Released Parties based upon any act or event occurring prior to the date of this Supplemental General Release. Without limitation, Mr. Bonfield specifically releases the Released Parties from any and all such claims arising out of his employment and separation from the Company, whether known, or unknown, including, but not limited to, claims under the Change in Control Agreement, claims based on discrimination under federal anti-discrimination laws such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Worker Adjustment Retraining Notification Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, claims under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") (including, without limitation, claims for interference with your rights to benefits under section 510 of ERISA), the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and/or any entitlement under any company program or plan, including for wages or other paid leave, and any and all federal, state and local fair employment practice laws, disability benefits law, and any other employee or labor relations statute, and any duty or other employment related obligation, tort, breach of contract, emotional distress, negligence, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, claims for monetary or equitable relief, punitive and compensatory relief and attorney's fees and costs. Except for those claims, causes of action or rights explicitly excluded from this Supplemental General Release, Mr. Bonfield agrees that he will never accept anything of value from a lawsuit, administrative complaint, or charge of any kind filed with any court, governmental or administrative agency or arbitrator concerning any claim, issue or matter relating to or arising out of any interaction with the Company prior to the parties' execution of this Agreement. He further represents and agrees that he will immediately notify the Company if he has filed or pursued any complaints, charges or lawsuits with any court, governmental or administrative agency or arbitrator against the Released Parties asserting any claims that are released in this Supplemental General Release.
Mr. Bonfield acknowledges that he is not giving up any claims that arise after the Effective Date of this Supplemental General Release (as defined in paragraph 12 of the Letter Agreement), claims for enforcement of the Letter Agreement or claims for any accrued, vested benefits under any employee benefit or pension plan of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of such plan and applicable law. Mr. Bonfield is further not giving up his right to appeal a denial of a claim for benefits submitted under his medical or dental coverage, life insurance or disability income program maintained by the Company. Mr. Bonfield is further not giving up his right to file a claim for unemployment insurance benefits, nor his rights, if any, to file a claim for workers' compensation insurance benefits.
 
Mr. Bonfield agrees that this Supplemental General Release is an integral part of the Letter Agreement, and that all provisions of the Letter Agreement are thereby incorporated in this Supplemental General Release as if fully set forth herein. Mr. Bonfield acknowledges that this Supplemental General Release and the Letter Agreement constitute the full and complete understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and that neither may be modified except in writing and signed by Mr. Bonfield and an authorized officer of the Company. He agrees that if a court of competent jurisdiction finds that this Supplemental General Release is illegal and/or unenforceable, he agrees to executive a general release that is legal and enforceable. He further represents and agrees that, in signing this Supplemental General Release, he is not relying on any promises or representations not contained herein and acknowledge that he is not entitled to any other compensation or benefits from the Company except as otherwise expressly provided for herein.
MR. BONFIELD'S SIGNATURE BELOW ACKNOWLEDGES THAT HE HAS READ THE ABOVE AND HAS HAD AT LEAST 21 DAYS TO CONSIDER THIS SUPPLEMENTAL RELEASE BEFORE SIGNING IT, UNDERSTANDS WHAT HE IS SIGNING, AND IS SIGNING IT VOLUNTARILY AND ACTING OF HIS OWN FREE WILL. HE UNDERSTANDS THAT IT WILL NOT BE EFFECTIVE IF IT IS SIGNED BY HIM PRIOR TO HIS SEPARATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE LETTER AGREEMENT). HE UNDERSTANDS THAT, IF ANY PROVISION OF THIS GENERAL RELEASE IS FOUND TO BE INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, IT WILL NOT AFFECT THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION. HE FURTHER AGREES THAT THIS LETTER AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW RULES AND CONSENTS TO PERSONAL JURISDICTION IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK. HE ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE COMPANY HAS ADVISED AND HEREBY ADVISES HIM IN WRITING TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY AND OTHER ADVISORS OF HIS CHOICE PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(NEW YORK, March 5)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that the company's Board of Directors has elected Jean-Marc Huet senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective March 31, 2008 In this role, Mr. Huet will be responsible for directing and managing the company's fiscal operations, as well as the global financial operations of the organization and its subsidiaries. Andrew Bonfield, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will remain in that role until Mr. Huet's arrival. He will leave the company after a period of transition to seek new career opportunities.
.
"The Board and I wish to express our gratitude to Andrew Bonfield, who led the transformation of our financial organization over the last six years, and the strengthening of our internal controls following a period of significant challenges," said Jim Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer. "He instituted new processes and procedures to modernize the company's financial reporting and streamlined the global finance
 
organization to deliver superior financial support. We are pleased he has agreed to stay with the company for a period of time to support the transition to Jean-Marc, whom Andrew helped identify as a potential successor in 2007 when he began to discuss with me new challenges to further develop his career."
Prior to joining Bristol-Myers Squibb, Mr. Huet served as chief financial officer at Royal Numico N.V. in Amsterdam. He is credited with initiating and developing Numico's acquisition strategy within the consolidating baby food sector and its resulting acquisition by Groupe Danone. Prior to joining Royal Numico, N.V., he was an executive director, Investment Banking Services, at Goldman Sachs International in London. He also spent several years at Clement Trading in Milan, Italy, as a commercial manager. Mr. Huet has a B.A. degree from Dartmouth College and an MBA from INSEAD.
In addition, Lamberto Andreotti, currently executive vice president and chief operating officer, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, will also assume responsibility for Mead Johnson and ConvaTec, and has been named executive vice president and chief operating officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb.
"Lamberto and Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D., executive vice president and chief scientific officer, continue to help shape and drive the transformation of Bristol-Myers Squibb to a next-generation BioPharma leader," said Cornelius. "As we continue to evolve, Lamberto and Elliott, together with the members of our Management Council, will play vital roles in shaping the Bristol-Myers of the future.
"We are also announcing several important internal promotions and changes of responsibility of senior management to allow us to focus on key elements of our next generation BioPharma strategy," Cornelius added.
 
John Celentano, formerly president of the Health Care Group, has been appointed senior vice president, Strategy and Productivity Transformation, a new position at the company. He will assume responsibility for Strategy, Corporate and Business Development, and Information Management and Global Shared Services and will continue to lead the company's Productivity Transformation Initiative;
Brian Daniels, M.D., senior vice president, Global Development, will join the Management Council, the company's most senior leadership group. Together with Elliott Sigal, Dr. Daniels will drive the company's focus on science and medicine as a central strategy of the next-generation BioPharma vision;
Anthony McBride, Ph.D., has been promoted to senior vice president of Human Relations. Dr. McBride, who will also join the Management Council, succeeds Stephen Bear, who will retire later this month after a long and distinguished career at the company;
Robert Zito, senior vice president and chief communications officer, will assume oversight of the BMS Foundation, adding John Damonti, president of the Foundation, to his leadership team.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global biopharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


