FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20080123171551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On January 22, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, elected Togo D. West, Jr. to serve as a member of the Board of Directors, effective immediately. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to eleven in connection with Mr. West's election.
Mr. West serves as chairman of TLI Leadership Group and Noblis, Inc. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. West is independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards and the independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors. Mr. West will serve as a member of the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. He will stand for election by the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2008.
Mr. West was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. There are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. West.
Mr. West will receive compensation for his services on the Board of Directors, the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors, including an annual retainer of $60,000, a per meeting fee of $2,000 and an annual award of deferred share units valued at $110,000 on the date of grant.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. West's election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, New York (January 22, 2008)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that Togo D. West, Jr. has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective today. West will serve as a member of the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
West, 65, is currently chairman of TLI Leadership Group and of Noblis, Inc. He has been U.S. Secretary of the Army and U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He has practiced law as a partner in the New York law firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb and Tyler and was of counsel to the D.C. based law firm of Covington and Burling. He also served as General Counsel to the Departments of Defense and of the Navy. Prior to his appointment with the Army, he was Senior Vice President for Government Affairs with the Northrop Corporation. More recently, he has been President and CEO of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. West serves on the boards of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (NYSE: KKD) and AbitibiBowater Inc. (NYSE: ABH).
"We are very excited to have Togo join our Board," said James D. Robinson III, chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "He is a proven leader with an impressive track record in both the private and government sectors."
"Togo is an insightful executive and an individual of the highest quality. His experience will be invaluable to our Board as we evolve into a next generation BioPharma enterprise," added James M. Cornelius, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life.


