FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20091022092446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2009, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 22, 2009)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported strong sales and earnings growth for the third quarter 2009.
"The performance in the third quarter of 2009 clearly shows the results of our outstanding business performance, disciplined financial management and overall strategic execution," said James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are transforming Bristol-Myers Squibb into a BioPharma leader and the recent approval and launch of ONGLYZA for the treatment of type 2 diabetes is a great example of what we do best: discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
"As part of our transformation, we are continuing to advance our String of Pearls strategy and I'm pleased to see that we've rapidly integrated Medarex into our R&D organization. Since formally acquiring Medarex in September, its scientific leadership, clinical assets and platform technologies have been a welcome addition as we work toward becoming a leader in immuno-oncology."
 
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
BioPharmaceuticals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mead Johnson Nutrition Company
 
 
THIRD QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
Metabolics/Cardiovascular
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oncology
 
 
 
 
Immunology
 
 
STRATEGIC UPDATE
Bristol-Myers Squibb completed its tender offer for the acquisition of Medarex, Inc. on September 1. The acquisition positions Bristol-Myers Squibb for long-term leadership in biologics; gives the company full rights to a promising Phase III compound, ipilimumab; significantly expands the company's oncology and immunology pipeline and provides access to novel antibody discovery technology.
On September 15, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced the sale of its OTC assets in Asia Pacific, excluding China and Japan, and shares in PT Bristol-Myers Squibb Indonesia Tbk to Taisho Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. for $310 million, due in the fourth quarter.
On October 1, the company sold its mature pharmaceutical brands and a manufacturing facility in Australia to Sigma Pharmaceuticals Limited for $62 million, also due in the fourth quarter.
2009 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb is raising its 2009 GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance to $1.72 to $1.77 and refining its non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance to $2.00 to $2.05. Key 2009 guidance assumptions include mid single-digit revenue growth (high single digit growth excluding foreign exchange); a full-year gross margin improvement of approximately 200 basis points; advertising and promotion increase in the low-to-mid single-digit range; marketing, sales and administrative expense decrease in the low-to-mid single digits; research and development expense growth in the mid single-digit range; and an effective tax rate of approximately 25%.
The company reaffirms guidance that it expects non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to the company to grow at a minimum 15 percent compounded annual growth rate, from the 2007 base through 2010 without rebasing for the sale of the ConvaTec business, excluding the impact of any U.S. healthcare reforms, costs associated with productivity transformation initiatives and other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified.
 
The financial guidance for 2009 and the three-year compound annual growth rate include the impact of the company's acquisition of Medarex and exclude any potential future strategic acquisitions and divestitures. The acquisition of Medarex is expected to decrease the company's earnings per share by $0.02 to $0.03 in 2009 and $0.07 to $0.09 in 2010.
The non-GAAP 2009 guidance and the three-year compound annual growth rate exclude other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for licensing arrangements; debt retirement costs; impairments to investments; and significant tax events.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses and product lines, including Medarex; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; in-process research and development charges prior to 2009; impairments to investments; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development and approvals,
 
pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether Apotex will prevail in its appealing of the Circuit Court's decision in the PLAVIX patent litigation. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy and Productivity Transformation Initiative, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products (including the expiration of data protection for PLAVIX in the European Union), and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company committed to discovering, developing and delivering innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
There will be a conference call on October 22, 2009 at 10:30 a.m. (ET) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing 913-312-1296, confirmation code 4883550. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Communications, Tracy Furey, 609-252-3208, Communications, John Elicker, 609-252-4611, Investor Relations, or Suketu Desai, 609-252-5796, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2009
 
Three months ended September 30, 2008
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2009
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2009
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue growth is projected in the mid single digit range, which based on historical trends in 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009 would be in the high single digit range, excluding foreign exchange.
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 was 72.1%, which included specified items of $88 million and had a 0.5% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 gross margin was 72.6%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2009 to improve approximately 200 basis points compared to 2008. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 were $2,590 million, which included specified items of $174 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 research and development expenses were $2,416 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2009 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2008. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 were $3,258 million, which included specified items of $96 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $3,162 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009 the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses, for the full year 2009 to be down in low to mid single digit range compared to 2008, excluding foreign exchange. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 was 27.6%, which included specified items of $26 million in the tax provision, and had a 3.0% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 effective tax rate was 24.6%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2009 to be approximately 25%. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2009 would include specified items that may occur and impact results, including restructuring and other charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative. The productivity initiative, announced in December 2007 is expected to generate approximately $2.5 billion in cost reductions and avoidance on a pre-tax basis by 2012. Costs associated with the Productivity Transformation Initiatives are estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion on a pre-tax basis. This amount does not include gains realized due to sales of assets. The ultimate timing of the recording of the charges cannot be predicted with certainty and will be affected by the occurrence of triggering events for expense recognition under GAAP, among other factors. The GAAP results for the full year 2009 could also include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Third Quarter of 2009, October 22, 2009, including "2009 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects 2008-10 compounded growth rate in earnings per share from continuing operations to be at least 15% compared to 2007 without rebasing 2007 for the agreement to sell the ConvaTec business, excluding the impact of any U.S. healthcare reforms, costs associated with productivity transformation initiatives and other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 


