FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20090306163241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c), (d) On March 3, 2009, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Lamberto Andreotti to serve as the company's President and Chief Operating Officer and elected Mr. Andreotti as a member of the Board of Directors. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to eleven in connection with Mr. Andreotti's election.
Mr. Andreotti is 58 years old and has worked for the company for eleven (11) years. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2007 until his current appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer. From September 2005 to May 2007, Mr. Andreotti served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals. From November 2002 to September 2005, Mr. Andreotti served as Senior Vice President and International President of the Worldwide Medicine Group. Mr. Andreotti is Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company.
Due to his employment with the company, the Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Andreotti is not independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards or the independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors. Mr. Andreotti will stand for election by the company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 5, 2009.
Mr. Andreotti was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. There are no related party transactions between the company and Mr. Andreotti.
Mr. Andreotti will receive compensation for his service as President and Chief Operating Officer in accordance with the company's standard executive compensation program. Mr. Andreotti will not be compensated for his service as a director of the company.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Andreotti's election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(NEW YORK, March 3, 2009)  Bristol Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that Lamberto Andreotti, 58, has been elected president and chief operating officer, and a member of the company's Board of Directors, effective today.
Mr. Andreotti will continue to have leadership responsibility for global pharmaceuticals, technical operations and global marketing, while adding oversight of information management worldwide. He will continue to report to James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer.
"Lamberto's leadership has been an integral part of our recent global commercial success, and of our transformation to a global BioPharma leader," said Mr. Cornelius.
Mr. Andreotti has been with Bristol-Myers Squibb for 11 years. From 2002-2005, Mr. Andreotti served as a corporate senior vice president, and international president of the Worldwide Medicines Group. From 2005-2007, he served as executive vice president of Worldwide Pharmaceuticals. In May 2007, Mr. Andreotti was named executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Mr. Andreotti, Dr. Elliott Sigal, executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, Research & Development, and Jean-Marc Huet, executive vice president and chief financial officer, continue to report to Mr. Cornelius and form the company's Executive Committee.
 


