FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20091218170924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Bancroft and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Bancroft was selected as an officer. There are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. Bancroft.
A copy of the press release dated December 14, 2009 announcing Mr. Huet's departure and Mr. Bancroft's appointment as Acting Chief Financial Officer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(NEW YORK, December 14, 2009)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) has appointed Charles Bancroft as acting chief financial officer effective January 1, 2010 and announced that Jean-Marc Huet, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will leave the company at the end of 2009.
"Jean-Marc has indicated to me his desire to return to Europe and we wish him every success," said James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The Board of Directors and I are grateful to Jean-Marc for his strategic work in rapidly and successfully solidifying our balance sheet, his focus on increasing our cash position to nearly $10 billion through a series of important transactions, and his leadership of continuous improvement initiatives which have greatly accelerated our BioPharma transformation."
Bancroft was most recently vice president, finance for Bristol-Myers Squibb's global biopharmaceutical business. In his new role, Bancroft will continue to report to Lamberto Andreotti, president and chief operating officer.
Bancroft joined Bristol-Myers in 1984 and has since held positions of increasing responsibility within the finance organization, including international assignments, senior leadership positions in the global pharmaceutical business and also with ConvaTec. He received his B.S. in Accounting from Drexel University, his M.B.A. in Finance from Temple University and is a certified public accountant.
"Charlie has a wide range of technical and operational finance experiences, including strong financial stewardship, business partnering and leadership capabilities which will serve him well in his new role," said Cornelius. "We have a strong finance team who will maintain our focus on delivering shareholder value."
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company committed to discovering,
developing and delivering innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit .
www.bms.com
Contacts:
Brian Henry, 609-252-3337,
Media:
brian.henry@bms.com
John Elicker, 609-252-4611,
Investors:
john.elicker@bms.com


