FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20090723103119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2009, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference are Exhibit 99.2, a supplemental investor presentation, and Exhibit 99.3, certain supplemental information, both of which are posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
On July 22, 2009, the Company and Medarex, Inc. issued a press release announcing that the companies have signed a definitive merger agreement that provides for the acquisition of Medarex, Inc. by the Company, for $16.00 per share in cash. A copy of the press release announcing the planned acquisition is filed as Exhibit 99.4 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, July 23, 2009)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE:BMY) today reported sales and earnings growth for the second quarter 2009.
"The excellent results for the second quarter and first six months of the year clearly represent how Bristol-Myers Squibb is rapidly transforming into a next-generation BioPharma leader through robust science, superior operational performance and disciplined financial management, " said James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are well on-track to continue delivering on our growth commitments. In the second quarter, we extended our collaboration with Otsuka on ABILIFY and, as a result, we expect that our outlook for 2013 is much improved. Our business performance and financial strength position us well to invest in further opportunities for long-term growth.
"Nowhere is that more evident than with our planned acquisition of Medarex. This is yet another example of how we are successfully executing on our String of Pearls strategy and building our future pipeline. We are expanding our biologics capabilities and gaining access to exciting new technology which may open new frontiers in cancer research. We believe the assets from Medarex can give us a competitive advantage in immunology and oncology, two areas of significant unmet medical need."
 
 
SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
BioPharmaceuticals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mead Johnson Nutrition Company
 
 
 
SECOND QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
Cardiovascular/Metabolics
 
 
 
 
 
Oncology
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunology
 
 
STRATEGIC UPDATE
On July 22, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Medarex announced that the companies have signed a definitive merger agreement providing for the acquisition of Medarex by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The acquisition positions Bristol-Myers Squibb for long-term leadership in biologics; gives the company full rights to a promising phase III compound, ipilimumab; significantly expands the company's oncology and immunology pipeline and provides access to novel antibody discovery technology.
On April 6, the company announced an agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Ltd. to extend the U.S. portion of the companies' long-standing agreement for the development and commercialization of ABILIFY from the currently scheduled end date of November 2012 until the expected loss of exclusivity in April 2015. The collaboration allows Bristol-Myers Squibb to refocus its energies toward longer-term growth goals for 2014 and beyond, improves the company's overall financial stability while maintaining financial flexibility for the future, and provides an expected bridge to the company's new neuroscience products.
 
2009 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb has revised the 2009 GAAP EPS guidance to $1.58 to $1.68 and raised non-GAAP EPS guidance to $1.95 to $2.05. Key 2009 guidance assumptions include low single-digit revenue growth (high single digit growth excluding foreign exchange); a full-year gross margin improvement of approximately 200 basis points; advertising and promotion increase in the low-to-mid single-digit range; marketing, sales and administrative expense decrease in the low-to-mid single digits; research and development expense growth in the mid single-digit range; and an effective tax rate of approximately 25%.
The company reaffirms guidance that it expects non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to the company to grow at a minimum 15 percent compounded annual growth rate, from the 2007 base through 2010 without rebasing for the sale of the ConvaTec business, excluding the impact of any U.S. healthcare reforms, costs associated with productivity transformation initiatives and other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified.
The non-GAAP 2009 guidance and the three-year compound annual growth rate exclude other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for licensing arrangements; debt retirement costs; impairments to investments; and significant tax events.
The financial guidance for 2009 and the three-year compound annual growth rate include the impact of the company's acquisition of Medarex but exclude the impact of any potential future strategic acquisitions and divestitures and further assume that the company and its partner, sanofi-aventis, maintain U.S. exclusivity for the PLAVIX patent through at least 2010. The planned acquisition of Medarex is expected to decrease the company's earnings per share by $0.02 to $0.03 in 2009 and $0.07 to $0.09 in 2010.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative; gains or losses from the sale of businesses and product lines; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed;
 
payments for in-process research and development; impairments to investments; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors (including whether uncertainties in or further deterioration of the credit and capital markets will lead to future impairments to the company's investment portfolio), competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter, including whether Apotex will prevail in its appealing of the Circuit court's decision in the PLAVIX patent litigation. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its Productivity Transformation Initiative, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products (including the expiration of data protection for PLAVIX in the European Union), and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation
 
to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life. For more information visit
www.bms.com.
There will be a conference call on July 23, 2009 at 10:30 a.m. (ET) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing 913-312-1296, confirmation code 9244491. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Communications, Tracy Furey, 609-252-3208, Communications, John Elicker, 609-252-4611, Investor Relations, or Suketu Desai, 609-252-5796, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2008. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2009
 
Three months ended June 30, 2008
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2009
 
Six months ended June 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue growth is projected in the low single digit range, which based on historical trends in 2008 and the six months ended June 30, 2009 would be in the high single digit range, excluding foreign exchange.
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was 72.4%, which included specified items of $58 million and had a 0.5% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2009 gross margin was 72.9%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the six months ended June 30, 2009 the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2009 to improve approximately 200 basis points compared to 2008. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2009 were $1,752 million, which included specified items of $174 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2009 research and development expenses were $1,578 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2009 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2008. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2009 were $2,141 million, which included specified items of $69 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2009 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $2,072 million. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the six months ended June 30, 2009 the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses, for the full year 2009 to be down in low to mid single digit range compared to 2008, excluding foreign exchange. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was 29.0%, which included specified items of $34 million in the tax provision, and had a 4.3% adverse impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2009 effective tax rate was 24.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2008 and the six months ended June 30, 2009 the Company projects effective tax rate for the full year 2009 to be approximately 25%. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2009 would include specified items that may occur and impact results, including restructuring and other charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative. The productivity initiative, announced in December 2007 is expected to generate approximately $2.5 billion in cost reductions and avoidance on a pre-tax basis by 2012. Costs associated with the Productivity Transformation Initiatives are estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion on a pre-tax basis. The ultimate timing of the recording of the charges cannot be predicted with certainty and will be affected by the occurrence of triggering events for expense recognition under GAAP, among other factors. The GAAP results for the full year 2009 could also include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Second Quarter of 2009, July 23, 2009, including "2009 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects 2008-10 compounded growth rate in earnings per share from continuing operations to be at least 15% compared to 2007 without rebasing 2007 for the agreement to sell the ConvaTec business, excluding the impact of any U.S. healthcare reforms, costs associated with productivity transformation initiatives and other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK and PRINCETON, NJ, July 22, 2009)  (NYSE:BMY) and Medarex, Inc. (NASDAQ: MEDX) announced today that the companies have signed a definitive merger agreement providing for the acquisition of Medarex by Bristol-Myers Squibb, for $16.00 per share in cash. The transaction, with an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.4 billion has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies. Medarex's projected $300 million in net cash and marketable securities at closing would be an asset acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb resulting in an implied purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
"Medarex's technology platform, people and pipeline provide a strong complement to our company's biologics strategy, specifically in immuno-oncology," said , chairman and chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "With its productive and proven antibody discovery capabilities, ability to generate interesting therapeutic programs and unique set of pre-clinical and clinical assets in development, Medarex represents what we're looking for in terms of our strategy. This acquisition is another important step in our BioPharma transformation."
James M. Cornelius
String of Pearls
"We believe that this combination with Bristol-Myers Squibb, a global leader in oncology, provides an excellent opportunity to realize the full potential of Medarex's development portfolio and our UltiMAb technology platform through a transaction which also provides an attractive valuation for our shareholders," said Howard H. Pien, chairman and chief executive officer, Medarex. "Medarex has evolved significantly over the past two decades from a research platform to a development company. We believe that this transaction represents a great opportunity to place our clinical programs and technology assets in the hands of one of the world's premier biopharmaceutical companies with the expertise, resources, motivation and dedication to bring innovative cancer treatment options to patients in need."
Bristol-Myers Squibb gains the following as a result of the acquisition:
 
 
 
 
"We welcome the opportunity to further collaborate with the Medarex scientific leadership," said Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D., executive vice president and president, research and development at Bristol-Myers Squibb. "In addition to our Adnexus team, which has been expanded since it was acquired in 2007, Medarex scientists will help us create an industry-leading biologics capability. We believe Medarex's antibody generation expertise, located in California and New Jersey, will complement our existing biologics efforts with a dedicated discovery and development capability in immuno-oncology."
Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb will commence a cash tender offer on or about July 27, 2009 to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Medarex common stock for $16.00 per share in cash. The closing of the tender offer is subject to customary terms and conditions, including the tender of a number of shares that, together with the number of shares already owned by Bristol-Myers Squibb, constitutes at least a majority of Medarex's outstanding shares of common stock (on a fully diluted basis) and expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act. The agreement also provides for the parties to effect, subject to customary conditions, a merger to be completed following the completion of the tender offer which would result in all shares not tendered in the tender offer being converted into the right to received $16.00 per share in cash. The merger agreement contains a provision under which Medarex has agreed not to solicit any competing offers for the company. Bristol-Myers Squibb will finance the acquisition from its existing cash resources. The companies expect the tender offer to close in approximately thirty (30) days after commencement of the tender offer.
JPMorgan Securities, Inc. is serving as financial advisor to Bristol-Myers Squibb in connection with the acquisition, and Bristol-Myers Squibb is represented by Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, New York, New York. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is serving as financial advisor to Medarex in connection with the acquisition, and Medarex is represented by Covington & Burling LLP, New York, New York.
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life. For more information visit www.bms.com.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Forward-Looking Statement
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" relating to the acquisition of Medarex by Bristol-Myers Squibb and the discovery, development and commercialization of certain biological compounds. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed. Among other risks, there can be no guarantee that the acquisition will be completed, or if it is completed, that it will close within the anticipated time period. In addition, the compounds described in this release are subject to all the risks inherent in the drug development process, and there can be no assurance that the development of these compounds will be commercially successful. Forward-looking statements in the press release should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol-Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in Bristol-Myers Squibb's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Bristol-Myers Squibb undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Medarex
Medarex is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and potential commercialization of fully human antibody-based therapeutics to treat life-threatening and debilitating diseases, including cancer, inflammation, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. Medarex applies its UltiMAb technology and product development and clinical manufacturing experience to generate, support and potentially commercialize a broad range of fully human antibody product candidates for itself and its partners. Over forty of these therapeutic product candidates derived from Medarex technology are in human clinical testing or have had INDs submitted for such trials, with the most advanced product candidates currently in Phase III clinical trials, the subject of regulatory applications for marketing authorization or approved for commercial sale. Medarex is committed to building value by developing a diverse pipeline of antibody products to address the world's unmet healthcare needs. For more information about Medarex, visit its website at www.medarex.com.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
Except for the historical information presented herein, matters discussed herein may constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements preceded by, followed by, or that include the words "future"; "anticipate"; "potential"; "believe"; or similar statements are forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include uncertainties as to the timing of the tender offer and merger; uncertainties as to how many of the Medarex shareholders will tender their shares in the offer; the risk that competing offers will be made; the possibility that various closing conditions for the transaction may not be satisfied or waived, including that a governmental entity may prohibit, delay or refuse to grant approval for the consummation of the transaction; the effects of disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, licensees, other business partners or governmental entities; as well as risks detailed from time to time in Medarex's public disclosure filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, subsequent quarterly filings on Form 10-Q and the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement to be filed in connection with the tender offer. The information contained in this release is as of July 22, 2009. Medarex disclaims any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the period covered by this report or otherwise. Copies of Medarex's public disclosure filings are available from its investor relations department.
Additional Information
The tender offer described in this release has not yet commenced, and this release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. At the time the tender offer is commenced, Bristol-Myers Squibb will cause a new wholly owned subsidiary, Puma Acquisition Corporation, to file a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Investors and Medarex shareholders are strongly advised to read the tender offer statement (including an offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and related tender offer documents) and the related solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 that will be filed by Medarex with the SEC, because they will contain important information. These documents will be available at no charge on the SEC's website at . In addition, a copy of the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and certain other related tender offer documents (once they become available) may be obtained free of charge by directing a request to Bristol-Myers Squibb at or Office of the Corporate Secretary, 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154-0037. A copy of the tender offer statement and the solicitation/recommendation statement will be made available to all shareholders of Medarex, Inc. free of charge at www.medarex.com or by contacting Medarex, Inc. at 707 State Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, 609-430-2880.
www.sec.gov
www.bms.com
Medarex, the Medarex logo, UltiMAb Human Antibody Development System and UltiMAb are registered trademarks of Medarex, Inc. All rights are reserved.
Contacts:
 


