FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20100128084044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 28, 2010, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and twelve months of 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, January 28, 2010)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced strong fourth quarter sales and earnings growth driven by the company's continued operational and strategic execution.
"Our top-line sales growth and improved operating margins reflect excellent execution across our company," said James M. Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer. "As a result, we have strengthened our financial position and are well prepared to continue delivering on our BioPharma strategy in 2010. In 2009, we completed strategic initiatives such as splitting off Mead Johnson, acquiring Medarex and extending our Abilify commercialization agreement with Otsuka; all of which significantly address present and future challenges.
"While fundamentally transforming our company over the past year, we were able to grow our key franchises, launch new medicines and indications, advance a diverse, differentiated, robust pipeline and embed productivity into our corporate DNA. Bristol-Myers Squibb is now truly a focused biopharmaceutical company which continues to deliver shareholder value and helps patients prevail over serious diseases."
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATEGIC UPDATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
Cardiovascular/Metabolics
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunology
 
 
 
 
Neuroscience
 
Oncology
 
 
 
 
Virology
 
 
 
 
2010 GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb is setting its 2010 GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance range from $1.94 to $2.04 and its non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance range from $2.15 to $2.25. Key 2010 guidance assumptions include mid single-digit revenue growth; full-year gross margin consistent with last year; advertising and promotion decrease in the mid to high single-digit range; marketing, sales and administrative expense flat; research and development expense growth in the mid to high single-digit range; and an effective tax rate between 23% and 24%. This guidance excludes any potential impact of U.S. healthcare reform.
The company has previously provided guidance that it expected non-GAAP EPS to grow at a minimum of 15 percent compound annual growth rate from the 2007 base through 2010 without rebasing for the sale of the ConvaTec business. If the company meets its expected 2010 non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance, it will exceed the prior 15 percent minimum three-year compound annual growth rate guidance.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses and product lines; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; in-process research and development charges prior to 2009; impairments to investments; special initiative funding to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company to be not reflective of the company's ongoing results. These items are also not included in the company's operating segment results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy and Productivity Transformation Initiative, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the
 
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company committed to discovering, developing and delivering innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit .
www.bms.com
There will be a conference call on January 28, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing 913-312-0945, confirmation code 3806406. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: Brian Henry, 609-252-3337, Communications, John Elicker, 609-252-4611, Investor Relations, or Teri Loxam, 609-252-3368, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 compared to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2009
 
Three months ended December 31, 2008
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
(b) Please refer to the Specified Items QTD tab for detail of specified items and the GAAP to Non-GAAP P&L tab for reconciliation.
(c) The following table provides a reconciliation table of General and administrative GAAP to Non-GAAP figures:
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
(b) Please refer to the Specified Items YTD tab for detail of specified items and the GAAP to Non-GAAP P&L tab for reconciliation.
(c) The following table provides a reconciliation table of General and administrative GAAP to Non-GAAP figures:
 
* The company calculates the foreign exchange (FX) impact by determining the change in a line item's current and prior period results at a common exchange rate and comparing this change to the actual reported change from the same period. This difference is determined to be the FX impact.
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
* The company calculates the foreign exchange (FX) impact by determining the change in a product's current and prior period results at a common exchange rate and comparing this change to the actual reported change from the same period. This difference is determined to be the FX impact.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2009
 
Three months ended December 31, 2008
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2009
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue growth is projected in the mid single digit range.
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the full year 2009 was 72.7%, which included specified items of $123 million and had a 0.6% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2009 gross margin was 73.3%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2010 to remain consistent with last year. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
Research and Development expenses on a GAAP basis for the full year 2009 were $3,647 million, which included specified items of $347 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2009 research and development expenses were $3,300 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expenses for the full year 2010 to increase in the mid to high single digit range compared to 2009. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the full year 2009 were $3,946 million, which included specified items of $210 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2009 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $3,736 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2010 to remain flat compared to 2009. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the full year 2009 was 21.1%, which included specified items of $205 million in the tax provision, and had a 1.1% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2009 effective tax rate was 22.2%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2009 the Company projects the annual effective tax rate between 23% and 24% for the full year 2010. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2010 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected restructuring and other charges related to implementation the Productivity Transformation Initiative (PTI), and other expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, accelerated depreciation and upfront and milestone payments. The productivity initiative, announced in December 2007 is expected to generate approximately $2.5 billion in cost reductions and avoidance on a pre-tax basis by 2012. Costs associated with the Productivity Transformation Initiative are $1.2 billion through the end of 2009, with aggregate costs estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion on a pre-tax basis. This amount does not include gains realized due to sales of assets. As the PTI projects are substantially complete and the Company expects to be within the above mentioned range, the Company will no longer separately identify PTI-related specified items beginning with the first quarter of 2010. The GAAP results for the full year 2010 could also include charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, additional upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain of the litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Fourth Quarter and 12 Months of 2009, January 28, 2010, including "2010 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The Company has previously provided guidance that it expected non-GAAP EPS to grow at a minimum of 15 percent compound annual growth rate from the 2007 base through 2010 without rebasing for the sale of the ConvaTec business. If the company meets its expected 2010 non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations guidance, it will exceed the prior 15 percent minimum three-year annual growth rate guidance. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 
 
 
 
 


