FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20101026075332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 26, 2010)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today reported results for the third quarter of 2010. Highlights in the quarter included: the presentation of new data on investigational compounds in the diabetes and cardiovascular disease franchises at major medical meetings; the completion of important regulatory milestones in the oncology, diabetes and immunoscience franchises; the acquisition of ZymoGenetics; and double-digit EPS growth. The company also confirmed guidance for 2010.
"The third quarter continued to highlight the excellent progress we are making with our innovative pipeline, an important driver in the success of our differentiated and focused BioPharma strategy," said Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
"We delivered double-digit EPS growth in the quarter, presented encouraging data on apixaban and dapagliflozin, received regulatory approval in Japan for Orencia, and completed filings for regulatory review in the U.S., Europe and Japan. We also completed our acquisition of ZymoGenetics, adding to our strong portfolio in Hepatitis C and demonstrating our continued focus on strategic transactions," Andreotti said.
 
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UPDATE
 
FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
The Company reaffirms its 2010 GAAP EPS guidance range of $1.84 to $1.94 per share and its non-GAAP guidance range of $2.10 to $2.20 per share. Key 2010 guidance assumptions include: low-to-mid single-digit revenue growth; full-year gross margin being consistent with last year; advertising and promotion expense decrease in the low double-digit range; marketing, sales and administrative expenses remaining flat; research and development expense growth in the mid single-digit range; and an effective tax rate of between 23% and 24%.
 
 
The financial guidance for 2010 excludes the impact of any potential future strategic transactions and specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The non-GAAP 2010 guidance also excludes other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for licensing arrangements; and debt retirement costs.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses and product lines; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval, which are immediately expensed; in-process research and development charges prior to 2009; special initiative funding to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. These items are also not included in the company's operating segment results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay,
 
divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, implementation guidance related to the new U.S. health care reform law, governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, Medicaid managed care organizations and entities under the Public Health Service 340B program, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, the inability to improve or remediate FDA concerns raised in the warning letter regarding certain GMP processes at our Manati facility, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, changes to business or tax planning strategies, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy and Productivity Transformation Initiative, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
There will be a conference call on October 26, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. EDT during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing 913-312-1235 confirmation code 3914988. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
 
 
For more information, contact: Jennifer Fron Mauer, 609-252-6579, Communications; Teri Loxam, 609-252-3368, Investor Relations, or Suketu Desai, 609-252-5796, Investor Relations.
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE, PLAVIX, DUOPLAVIN and DUOCOVER are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
ELIQUIS is a trademark of Pfizer, Inc. and is licensed to Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
 
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2010
 
 
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Net Sales
 
% of Total Sales
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2010
 
Three months ended September 30, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was 73.1%, which included specified items of $85 million and had a 0.6% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 gross margin was 73.7%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin for the full year 2010 to remain consistent with last year. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $2,556 million, which included specified items of $72 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 research and development expenses were $2,484 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expense for the full year 2010 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2009. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation -September YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $2,686 million, which included specified items of $27 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $2,659 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2010 to remain flat compared to 2009. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was 21.2%, which included specified items of $193 million in the tax provision, and had a 1.7% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 effective tax rate was 22.9%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2009 the Company projects the annual effective tax rate between 23% and 24% for the full year 2010. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - September YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2010 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, accelerated depreciation, upfront and milestone payments and certain tax-related items. The GAAP results for the full year 2010 could also include other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified, including any gains or losses from the purchase or sale of business or product lines, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, additional upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Third Quarter of 2010, October 26, 2010, including "2010 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
 


