FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20100510165934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 4, 2010, the stockholders of the company also approved the Certificate of Amendment to amend Article Eighth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. As more fully described in the Proxy Statement dated March 22, 2010, the amendment eliminated the supermajority provision applicable to common stockholders. The Certificate of Amendment filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 7, 2010 is attached to this report as Exhibit 3b.
On May 4, 2010, the Board of Directors amended Bylaws 15, 16, 29, 36, 47 and 48 to reflect the separation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer positions and to clarify that the Chairman of the Board and Vice Chairman of the Board, if one is appointed, are not officers of the company. In addition, concurrently with the stockholders' approval of the Certificate of Amendment to permit holders of at least 25% in voting power of the outstanding shares to call special meetings of stockholders, corresponding amendments to Bylaw 6 that were previously approved by the Board became effective. The amendments to Bylaw 6 also set forth the procedural requirements for stockholders to call a special meeting. A copy of the revised Bylaws, effective May 4, 2010, is attached to this report as Exhibit 3c.
 
The Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 4, 2010. A summary of the matters voted upon by stockholders is set forth below.
1. Stockholders elected each of 11 nominees for director to serve for a term to expire at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders based upon the following votes:
 
2. Stockholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010 based upon the following votes:
 
3. Stockholders approved an Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to permit holders of at least 25% in voting power of the outstanding shares company to call special meetings of stockholders based upon the following votes:
 
As required, a majority of the outstanding shares voted in favor this proposal.
4. Stockholders approved an Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority provision applicable to common stockholders based upon the following votes:
 
As required, 75% of the outstanding shares voted in favor of this proposal.
5. Stockholders rejected an Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate to eliminate the supermajority provisions applicable to preferred stockholders based upon the following votes:
All stockholders:
 
Preferred Stockholders:
 
A majority of the outstanding shares and two-thirds of the outstanding preferred shares were needed for this proposal to be approved.
6. Stockholders rejected a stockholder proposal relating to executive compensation disclosure based upon the following votes:
 
7. Stockholders rejected a stockholder proposal relating to stockholder action by written consent based upon the following votes:
 
8. Stockholders rejected a stockholder proposal relating to a report on animal use based upon the following votes:
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3a.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify that:
1. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation") is hereby amended by deleting the second sentence of Article NINTH of the Certificate of Incorporation in its entirety and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights under Article FOURTH hereof of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, special meetings of stockholders of the corporation may be called only by (i) the Chairman of the board of directors, (ii) a majority of the entire board of directors, or (iii) the Secretary of the corporation upon a written request of record holders of at least 25% in voting power of the outstanding shares of stock of the corporation made in accordance with, and subject to, all applicable provisions of the Bylaws.
2. The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 4
th
day of May, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 3b.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify that:
1. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation") is hereby amended by deleting in its entirety the last paragraph in section (a) of Article EIGHTH of the Certificate of Incorporation.
2. The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 4
th
day of May, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 3c.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


