FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20110728084030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2011, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, July 28, 2011)  (NYSE: BMY) today announced double-digit sales growth in a quarter that was highlighted by important new product approvals in both the U.S. and Europe, and key data from the Company's cardiovascular, oncology and diabetes franchises. In addition, the company raised guidance for 2011 and confirmed minimum non-GAAP guidance for 2013.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
"I am proud of this organization and our strong second quarter results across the boardfinancially, clinically, and operationally. This performance demonstrates the success of our BioPharma strategy in delivering short term results and in positioning the Company for the future," said , chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Lamberto Andreotti
"While we delivered double-digit sales growth during the second quarter, driven in part by the strong initial performance of YERVOY (ipilimumab), we also received regulatory approval for NULOJIX (belatacept) in the U.S. and Europe, and ELIQUIS in Europe for VTE prevention. That brings us to three new products approved in three months, including the approval of YERVOY in the U.S. in March. We also presented clinical data from our oncology and diabetes franchises, and
 
announced important positive top line results from our Phase III ARISTOTLE trial on ELIQUIS for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation."
 
SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UPDATE
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
2011
Bristol-Myers Squibb is raising its 2011 GAAP EPS guidance range to $2.08 to $2.18 and its non-GAAP EPS range to $2.20 to $2.30. Key non-GAAP guidance assumptions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This line-item guidance assumes current foreign exchange rates.
2013
The company is reaffirming its minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.95 for 2013. This 2013 assumes strong underlying revenue trends for certain key products, timely regulatory approval of and significant contributions from pipeline products, continued and additional productivity savings, exclusivity for for the term for the current agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., and that foreign currency exchange rates and the negative impact of U.S. health care reform and European government-mandated cost containment measures are not substantially different from current expectations.
ABILIFY
The financial guidance for 2011 and the 2013 minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance exclude the impact of any potential strategic acquisitions and divestitures and any specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The non-GAAP 2011 guidance and the 2013 minimum non-GAAP guidance also exclude other specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the Company's website.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, significant gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; IPRD and asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront, milestone and other licensing payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval which are immediately expensed; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, implementation of the new discounts and new pharmaceutical company fee under the 2010 U.S. health care reform law, governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, Medicaid managed care organizations and entities under the Public Health Service 340B program, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, changes to business or tax planning strategies, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales including any potential future recalls, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details
 
and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
There will be a conference call on July 28, 2011, at 10:30 a.m. EDT during which company executives will review financial information and address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing: 913-312-0379, confirmation code: 8747273. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: , 609-252-6579, Communications; , 609-252-3368, or , 609-252-7509, Investor Relations.
Jennifer Fron Mauer
Teri Loxam
Timothy Power
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE, and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
ELIQUIS is a trademark of Pfizer, Inc.
All other brand names of products appearing in all capital letters are registered trademarks of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2011
 
Three months ended June 30, 2010
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2011
 
Six months ended June 30, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended June 30, 2011
 
Three months ended June 30, 2010
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2011
 
Six months ended June 30, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin as a percentage of sales on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was 73.0%, which included specified items of $41 million and had a 0.4% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2011 gross margin as a percentage of sales was 73.4%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin as a percentage of sales for the full year 2011 to remain consistent with last year. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were $1,858 million, which included specified items of $153 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2011 research and development expenses were $1,705 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expense for the full year 2011 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2010. It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2011 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were $1,968 million, which included specified items of $14 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30 2011 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $1,954 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2011 to grow in the high-single digit range compared to 2010. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was 24.8%, which included specified items of $133 million in the tax provision, and had a 2.1% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the six months ended June 30, 2011 the effective tax rate was 26.9%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2010 the Company projects an annual effective tax rate of approximately 26% for the full year 2011. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - June YTD tab.
The GAAP financial results for the full year 2011 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, accelerated depreciation, upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, asset and IPR&D impairments and certain tax-related items. The GAAP financial results for the full year 2011 could also include other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified, including any gains or losses from acquisitions or divestitures, additional upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development impairments, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Second Quarter of 2011, July 28, 2011 including "2011 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The EPS impact of U.S. healthcare reform in 2010 was $0.10 and is expected to be approximately $0.25 in 2011. In 2011, we expect a reduction of net sales of approximately $250 million resulting from new discounts associated with the Medicare Part D coverage gap and an increase in marketing, sales and administrative expenses of approximately $250 million due to the new annual non-tax-deductible pharmaceutical company fee. The non-tax deductibility on our share of the net pharmaceutical company fee is expected to increase our effective tax rate by approximately 1% in 2011 which is considered in our effective tax rate guidance above.
With respect to the 2013 minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance, there is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 


