FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20110304143341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On March 1, 2011, the company's Board of Directors elected Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D. to serve as a member of the Board of Directors. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to twelve in connection with Dr. Sigal's election.
Dr. Sigal is 59 years old and has worked for the company for over 13 years. He has served as executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, Bristol-Myers Squibb Research and Development since 2004.
Due to his employment with the company, the Board of Directors has determined that Dr. Sigal is not independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards or the independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors. Dr. Sigal will continue to serve as a member of the Science and Technology Committee of the Board and he will stand for election by the company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 3, 2011.
Dr. Sigal was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. There are no related party transactions between the company and Dr. Sigal.
Dr. Sigal receives compensation for his service as executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, Bristol-Myers Squibb Research and Development in accordance with the company's standard executive compensation program. Dr. Sigal will not be compensated for his service as a director of the company.
A copy of the press release announcing Dr. Sigal election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(PRINCETON, New Jersey, March 1, 2011)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D., has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective today. Dr. Sigal also will be a member of the Board's Science and Technology Committee.
Dr. Sigal, 59, reports to Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, as executive vice president, chief scientific officer and president, Bristol-Myers Squibb Research and Development, a position he has held since 2004. Dr. Sigal joined Bristol-Myers Squibb in November 1997 as vice president of Applied Genomics. Since then he has served in critical leadership roles within R&D, including drug discovery and development. During Dr. Sigal's tenure as chief scientific officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb achieved eight new drug approvals and the R&D organization filled the drug pipeline with an unprecedented number of mid- and late-stage assets, five of which could be approved by 2012.
"We are very excited to have Elliott join our Board," said James M. Cornelius, chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "Under his leadership, our R&D organization has become one of the most productive in the industry. Today's appointment recognizes his great contribution to the company."
"Elliott's election to our Board recognizes the importance of R&D to our strategy and our success as a BioPharma company," added Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "Elliott is an important member of my Senior Management Team, a team that joins me in congratulating him on this great honor and his many accomplishments."
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information about Bristol-Myers Squibb, visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
Contacts
Tracy Furey, 609-252-3208,
Media:
tracy.furey@bms.com
John Elicker, 609-252-4611,
Investors:
john.elicker@bms.com


