FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20110506163236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a.) The annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") was held on May 3, 2011.
(b.) Stockholders voted on the matters set forth below.
The Stockholders elected each of the Company's 12 nominees to serve as directors of the Company until the 2012 Annual Meeting based upon the following votes:
Item 1.
 
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for the 2011 year was ratified based upon the following votes:
Item 2.
 
The management proposal on the advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers was approved based upon the following votes:
Item 3.
 
The management proposal on the advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers received the following votes:
Item 4.
 
The stockholder proposal on executive compensation disclosure received the following votes:
Item 5.
 
The stockholder proposal on the stockholder action by written consent received the following votes:
Item 6.
 
The stockholder proposal on pharmaceutical price restraint received the following votes:
Item 7.
 
(d.) A majority of the votes cast by stockholders voted, on an advisory basis, to hold an advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers every year. The Board of Directors has taken into consideration the views of our stockholders and decided that it will include an advisory stockholder vote on the compensation of our named executive officers in the Company's proxy materials annually until the next required vote on the frequency of such an advisory vote.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 6, 2011


