FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20110127075629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2011, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and twelve months of 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Bristol-Myers Squibb Delivers Solid Fourth Quarter Results in a Year Highlighted by Robust Clinical Data, Continued Execution of Strategic Transactions and Good Operating Performance
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, January 27, 2011)  (NYSE: BMY) today announced solid results for the fourth quarter of 2010. This concludes a year in which the Company presented key data on marketed and investigational products across its pipeline, completed important regulatory milestones, continued its focus on strategic transactions and delivered on its commitment to drive shareholder value. In addition, the company provided guidance for 2011, and confirmed guidance for 2013.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
"In the fourth quarter, we delivered solid financial results, concluding a very good year for the company," said , chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "The performance in the quarter is reflective of a year in which robust clinical data, targeted execution of our String of Pearls strategy, and key regulatory submissions provided further proof of our ability to build one of the most innovative pipelines in the industry."
Lamberto Andreotti
"In 2011 we will build on the momentum created in 2010. We anticipate several key pipeline events that will help shape our future as we continue to position our company for long-term success as a focused, differentiated BioPharma company," Andreotti said.
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UPDATE
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
2011
Bristol-Myers Squibb is setting its 2011 GAAP EPS guidance range from $2.00 to $2.10 and its non-GAAP EPS range from $2.10 to $2.20. Key 2011 non-GAAP guidance assumptions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On an incremental year-over-year basis, U.S. health care reform is expected to have a negative impact on 2011 EPS of approximately $0.15. This estimate includes:
 
 
The guidance for 2011 also includes the effect of the AVALIDE recall and extended supply interruption. Net sales of AVALIDE in the affected markets were $355 million in 2010.
It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2011 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. Late-stage development expenses refer to our investigational compounds that are in Phase III clinical development and our marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations.
 
2013
The Company reaffirms its minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.95 for 2013. This 2013 guidance assumes strong underlying revenue trends for certain key products, timely regulatory approval of and significant contributions from pipeline products, continued and additional productivity savings, exclusivity for for the term of the current agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and that foreign currency exchange rates and the negative impact of U.S. health care reform and European government-mandated cost containment measures are not substantially different from current expectations.
ABILIFY
The financial guidance for 2011 and the 2013 minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance exclude the impact of any potential future strategic transactions and specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The non-GAAP 2011 guidance and the 2013 minimum guidance also exclude other specified items such as gains or losses from sale of businesses and product lines; from sale of equity investments and from discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for licensing arrangements; and debt retirement costs.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, significant gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related to implementation of the Productivity Transformation Initiative; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses and product lines; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset and IPRD impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval, which are immediately expensed; special initiative funding to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, implementation of the new discounts and new pharmaceutical company fee under the 2010 U.S. health care reform law, governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, Medicaid managed care organizations and entities under the Public Health Service 340B program, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, the inability to improve or remediate FDA concerns raised in the warning letter regarding certain GMP processes at our Manati facility, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, changes to business or tax planning strategies, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales including the Avalide recall and extended supply shortage and any potential future recalls, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy and Productivity Transformation Initiative, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
 
There will be a conference call on January 27, 2011, at 10:30 a.m. EST during which company executives will address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing: 913-312-0732, confirmation code: 7584294. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: , 609-252-6579, Communications; , 609-252-3368, or , 609-252-7509, Investor Relations.
Jennifer Fron Mauer
Teri Loxam
Timothy Power
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE, and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
All other brand names of products appearing in all capital letters are registered trademarks of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2010
 
Three months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
YEAR-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER-TO-DATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2010
 
Three months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2010
 
Twelve months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin as a percentage of sales on a GAAP basis for the full year 2010 was 72.9%, which included specified items of $113 million and had a 0.6% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2010 gross margin as a percentage of sales was 73.5%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin as a percentage of sales for the full year 2011 to remain consistent with last year. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - Dec YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the full year 2010 were $3,566 million, which included specified items of $142 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2010 research and development expenses were $3,424 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expense for the full year 2011 to increase in the mid single digit range compared to 2010. It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2011 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - Dec YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the full year 2010 were $3,686 million, which included specified items of $35 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2010 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $3,651 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2011 to grow in the mid-single diget range compared to 2010. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - Dec YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the full year 2010 was 25.7%, which included specified items of $32 million in the tax provision, and had a 2.1% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the full year 2010 effective tax rate was 23.6%. On a non-GAAP basis, based on historical trends in 2010 the Company projects the annual effective tax rate between 25% and 26% for the full year 2011. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
The GAAP results for the full year 2011 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, accelerated depreciation, upfront and milestone payments and certain tax-related items. The GAAP results for the full year 2011 could also include other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified, including any gains or losses from the purchase or sale of business or product lines, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, debt retirement costs and other charges related to new transactions, additional upfront and milestone payments, copromotion or alliance charges and charges for in-process research and development related to new external development transactions, gains or losses from asset disposals, other restructuring activities, impairments to marketable securities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Fourth Quarter and 12 Months of 2010, January 27, 2011, including "2010 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
The estimated impact related to new discounts associated with the Medicare Part D coverage gap is expected to reduce net sales by approximately $250 million in 2011 and the annual non-tax deductible pharmaceutical company fee is expected to be approximately $250 million in 2011 resulting in an earnings per share reduction of approximately $.14 per share after considering cost sharing with our alliance partners. The non-tax deductibility on our share of the net pharmaceutical company fee is expected to increase our effective tax rate by approximately 1% in 2011 which is considered in our effective tax rate guidance above.
With respect to the 2013 minimum non-GAAP EPS guidance, there is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on earnings per share.
 
 
 
Working Capital Plus Capital Expenditures as a % of Net Sales, Net of Foreign Exchange(a)
 
 
 


