FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20120126083427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and twelve months of 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, January 26, 2012)  (NYSE: BMY) today announced solid financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011. This concludes a year in which the Company received important new product approvals for YERVOY and NULOJIX in both the U.S. and Europe, and ELIQUIS in Europe for the prevention of venous thromboembolic events. Business development remained a top priority as the Company executed twelve strategic transactions in 2011, and announced the planned acquisition of Inhibitex earlier this month. These accomplishments, along with the dividend increase and ongoing share repurchase program, demonstrated the Company's commitment to driving shareholder value in 2011.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
"In the fourth quarter, we delivered solid financial results, concluding a very good year that sets the foundation for the long-term growth of the company," said , chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "Our delivery of several important new products to patients, the ability of our productive R&D organization to build an innovative and diverse pipeline, and our continued commitment to business development gives us confidence in our future. In 2012, we will build on the momentum of 2011 as we transition beyond the loss of exclusivity of PLAVIX and AVAPRO," Andreotti said.
Lamberto Andreotti
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
 
Dapagliflozin
 
 
 
 
ELIQUIS
 
 
ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE
 
 
ERBITUX
 
 
ORENCIA
 
BARACLUDE
 
Brivanib
 
Investigational Hepatitis C (HCV) Portfolio
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UPDATE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb is setting its 2012 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS guidance range from $1.90 to $2.00. Both GAAP and non-GAAP guidance assume current exchange rates. Key 2012 non-GAAP guidance assumptions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2012 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. Late-stage development expenses refer to our investigational compounds that are in Phase III clinical development and our marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations.
The financial guidance for 2012 includes the impact of the expected acquisition of Inhibitex, Inc., but excludes the impact of any other potential strategic acquisitions and divestitures, and any specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The non-GAAP 2012 guidance also exclude other specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the Company's website.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related earnings per share information, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, significant gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; IPRD and asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront, milestone and other licensing payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval which are immediately expensed; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share information is an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, implementation of the new discounts and new pharmaceutical company fee under the 2010 U.S. health care reform law, governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, Medicaid managed care organizations and entities under the Public Health Service 340B program, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, changes to business or tax planning strategies, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales including any potential future recalls, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
There will be a conference call on January 26, 2012, at 10:30 a.m. EST during which company executives will review financial information and address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at or by dialing: 913-312-0856, confirmation code: 5642831. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
http://investor.bms.com
For more information, contact: , 609-252-6579, Communications; , 609-252-3368, or Timothy Power, 609-252-7509, Investor Relations.
Jennifer Fron Mauer
Teri Loxam
ABILIFY is the trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ATRIPLA is a trademark of both Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
AVAPRO, AVALIDE, and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
ERBITUX is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
ELIQUIS is a trademark of Pfizer, Inc.
If approved, KOMBIGLYZE will be known as KOMBOGLYZE in the European Union.
All other brand names of products appearing in all capital letters are registered trademarks of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin as a percentage of sales on a GAAP basis for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 was 73.6%, which included specified items of $75 million and had a 0.4% adverse impact on gross margin in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 gross margin as a percentage of sales was 74.0%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin as a percentage of sales for the full year 2012 to remain consistent with last year. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 were $3,839 million, which included specified items of $235 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 research and development expenses were $3,604 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expense for the full year 2012 to increase in the low single digit range compared to 2011. It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2012 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 were $4,203 million, which included specified items of $29 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $4,174 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2012 to decrease in the mid-single digit range compared to 2011. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
The effective tax rate on a GAAP basis for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 was 24.7%, which included specified items of $233 million in the tax provision, and had a 1.6% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 the effective tax rate was 26.3%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects an annual effective tax rate of between 25% and 26%, which assumes the extension of the R&D tax credit for the full year 2012. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See GAAP to Non-GAAP PL Reconciliation - December YTD tab.
The GAAP financial results for the full year 2012 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, milestone payments and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings. The GAAP financial results for the full year 2012 could also include other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified, including any gains or losses from acquisitions or divestitures, additional upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, charges for in-process research and development impairments, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Reports Financial Results For The Fourth Quarter of 2011, January 26, 2012 including "2011 Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
 
Working Capital Plus Capital Expenditures as a % of Net Sales, Net of Foreign Exchange
(
a)
Calculated at Actual Exchange Rates
 
 
Converted to 2011 Budgeted Foreign Exchange Rates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


