FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20120124170324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On January 23, 2012, the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") elected Gerald L. Storch to serve as a member of the Board of Directors, effective immediately. The size of the Board of Directors was increased to twelve in connection with Mr. Storch's election.
Mr. Storch serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Toys"R"Us, Inc. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Storch is independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards and the independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors. Mr. Storch will serve as a member of the Audit Committee and the Compensation and Management Development Committee. He will stand for election by the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May 2012.
Mr. Storch was not selected as a director pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. There are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. Storch.
Mr. Storch will receive compensation for his services on the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Compensation and Management Development Committee in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors, including an annual retainer of $85,000 and an annual award of deferred share units valued at $140,000 on the date of grant.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Storch's election is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(NEW YORK, January 24, 2012)Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Gerald L. Storch to the Board, effective yesterday. Mr. Storch will serve as a member of the Audit Committee, and the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Storch, 55, is currently the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Toys"R"Us, Inc., the world's leading dedicated toy and juvenile products retailer, a position he has held since 2006. From 1993 to 2005, he was employed by Target Corporation where he served in roles of increasing responsibility, including as Vice Chairman from January 2001 until his departure in October 2005. Prior to joining Target, Mr. Storch was a partner at McKinsey & Company, specializing in retail and financial services.
"We are thrilled to have a person of Jerry's caliber, an industry leader with an excellent track record of success in branding and positioning a global franchise for growth, on our Board of Directors," said Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
James M. Cornelius, chairman of Bristol-Myers Squibb, added, "Jerry's broad business and financial experience, focus on innovation and tremendous integrity make him an ideal member of our Board of Directors. I look forward to his contributions."
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit www.bms.com or follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/bmsnews.
Contacts:
Jennifer Fron Mauer, 609-252-6579, jennifer.mauer@bms.com
Media:
John Elicker, 609-252-4611, john.elicker@bms.com
Investors:


