FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20120824074024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
On August 23, 2012 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it has discontinued development of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor that was in Phase II development for the treatment of hepatitis C. The decision was made in the interest of patient safety, based on a rapid, thorough and ongoing assessment of patients in a Phase II study that the Company voluntarily suspended on August 1, 2012. The Company acquired BMS-986094 when it completed its acquisition of Inhibitex, Inc. in February 2012. As a result of the termination of this development program, the Company has concluded that a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $1.8 billion related to the in-process research and development intangible asset is required. This charge will be recognized in the third quarter of 2012. The Company does not expect that the impairment charge will result in future cash expenditures.
A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(Princeton, NJ, August 23, 2012) - (NYSE: BMY) announced today that the Company has discontinued development of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor that was in Phase II development for the treatment of hepatitis C. This decision was made in the interest of patient safety, based on a rapid, thorough and ongoing assessment of patients in a Phase II study that the Company voluntarily suspended on August 1, 2012. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) subsequently placed the compound on clinical hold.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
The initial case of heart failure, which was the basis for halting the study, subsequently resulted in death. The Company is working in close collaboration with the FDA and clinical study investigators to conduct ongoing, comprehensive assessments and close follow-up of all BMS-986094 study patients. To date, nine patients have been hospitalized, including the initial patient; two patients remain hospitalized. While the cause of these unexpected events, which involve heart and kidney toxicity, has not been definitively established, the Company has determined that it is in the best interest of patients to halt development of BMS-986094.
"The decision to halt development of BMS-986094 has been guided by our overriding interest in protecting patients," said , Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "In the interest of all patients participating in hepatitis C clinical studies, and in cooperation with the FDA, we will make relevant information on BMS-986094 available to inform the development of other investigational compounds to treat hepatitis C. We will also work expeditiously to share the results of our further investigations more broadly in the medical and scientific community."
Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
Bristol-Myers Squibb is committed to investigating this safety issue further, including studies to evaluate the potential mechanism of this toxicity. The Company will continue close monitoring and follow-up of patients who have received BMS-986094 across all studies.
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information about Bristol-Myers Squibb, visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
 
 


