FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20121024081559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 24, 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. Also furnished and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is certain supplemental information posted on the Company's website at .
www.bms.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
(NEW YORK, October 24, 2012)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (NYSE: BMY) today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2012, adjusted 2012 GAAP and confirmed non-GAAP EPS guidance.
"Bristol-Myers Squibb faced challenges in the third quarter, including the discontinuation of BMS-986094 for the treatment of hepatitis C. I am proud of how we worked through these challenges and made the right decisions for patients," said Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "We remain strong and well-positioned for future success as demonstrated by the achievement of regulatory milestones for and , the presentation of long-term survival data for the completion of our acquisition of Amylin, and the performance of our key brands."
Eliquis
Orencia
Yervoy,
 
 
 
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD QUARTER PRODUCT AND PIPELINE UPDATE
Bristol-Myers Squibb's global sales in the third quarter included which grew 32%, , which grew 48%, which grew 25%, which grew 40%, and which grew 11%.
Orencia
Yervoy
Sprycel
Onglyza/Kombiglyze
Baraclude
Eliquis
 
 
 
Orencia
 
Baraclude
 
Yervoy
 
Onglyza
 
Hepatitis C
 
 
THIRD QUARTER BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UPDATE
 
 
 
2012 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
Bristol-Myers Squibb is adjusting its 2012 GAAP EPS guidance range to $0.95 to $1.05, from $1.78 to $1.88, and confirming its 2012 non-GAAP EPS range of $1.90 to $2.00, guiding to the upper end of the range. Both GAAP and non-GAAP guidance assume current exchange rates. Key non-GAAP guidance assumptions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financial guidance for 2012 includes the impact of completed acquisitions, but excludes the impact of any potential future strategic acquisitions and divestitures and any specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The non-GAAP 2012 guidance also exclude other specified items as discussed under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information." Details reconciling adjusted non-GAAP amounts with the amounts reflecting specified items are provided in supplemental materials available on the company's website.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related earnings per share information. These measures are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, significant gains and losses and other specified items. Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; net amortization related to acquired intangible assets of Amylin; IPRD and asset impairments; charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront, milestone and other licensing payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval which are immediately expensed; and significant tax events. This information is intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of the company's past financial performance and prospects for the future. Non-GAAP financial measures provide the company and its investors with an indication of the company's baseline performance before items that are considered by the company not to be reflective of the company's ongoing results. The company uses non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP marketing, selling and administrative expense, non-GAAP research and development expense, and non-GAAP other income and expense measures to set internal budgets, manage costs, allocate resources, and plan and forecast future periods. Non-GAAP effective tax rate measures are primarily used to plan and forecast future periods. Non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share measures are primary indicators the company uses as a basis for evaluating company performance, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Statement on Cautionary Factors
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, statements relating to goals, plans and projections regarding the company's financial position, results of operations, market position, product development and business strategy. These statements may be identified by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate", "estimates", "should", "expect", "guidance", "project", "intend", "plan", "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. These factors include, among other things, difficulties and delays in product development, manufacturing or sales including any potential future recalls, effects of the continuing implementation of the discounts and pharmaceutical company fee under the 2010 U.S. health care reform law, governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, Medicaid managed care organizations and entities under the Public Health Service 340B program, pharmaceutical rebates and reimbursement, market factors, competitive product development and approvals, pricing controls and pressures (including changes in rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers), economic conditions such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, judicial decisions, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates,
 
changes to wholesaler inventory levels, variability in data provided by third parties, changes in, and interpretation of, governmental regulations and legislation affecting domestic or foreign operations, including tax obligations, changes to business or tax planning strategies, patent positions and the ultimate outcome of any litigation matter. These factors also include the company's ability to execute successfully its strategic plans, including its String of Pearls strategy and cost savings initiatives, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, and the impact and result of governmental investigations. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that future clinical studies will support the data described in this release, that the products will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that they will prove to be commercially successful; nor are there guarantees that regulatory approvals will be sought, or sought within currently expected timeframes, or that contractual milestones will be achieved. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's periodic reports, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Company and Conference Call Information
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit http://www.bms.com or follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/bmsnews.
There will be a conference call on October 24, 2012, at 10:00 a.m. ET during which company executives will review financial information and address inquiries from investors and analysts. Investors and the general public are invited to listen to a live web cast of the call at http://investor.bms.com or by dialing: 913-312-0375, confirmation code: 6543884. Materials related to the call will be available at the same website prior to the call.
For more information, contact: Jennifer Fron Mauer, 609-252-6579, Communications; John Elicker, 609-252-4611, or Timothy Power, 609-252-7509, Investor Relations.
is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Abilify
is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Atripla
, , and are trademarks of Sanofi.
Avapro
Avalide
Plavix
and are trademarks of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP.
Byetta
Bydureon
is a trademark of ImClone LLC. ImClone Systems is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company.
Erbitux
All other brand names are registered trademarks solely owned by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
 
The following table sets forth worldwide and U.S. reported net sales for selected products. In addition, the table includes, where applicable, the estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail-order channels for the comparative periods presented for certain of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical products based on third-party data. A significant portion of the company's U.S. pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross margin as a percentage of sales on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for the three months ended September 30, 2012 was 73.6% and 75.0%, respectively. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects gross margin as a percentage of sales for the full year 2012 to improve approximately 100 basis points compared to 2011. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on gross margin. See " Reconciliation of GAAP and NON-GAAP Growth Dollars and Percentages Excluding Foreign Exchange Impact".
Research and development expenses on a GAAP basis for the three months ended September 30, 2012 were $951 million, which included specified items of $48 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2012 research and development expenses were $903 million. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects research and development expense for the full year 2012 to increase in the low single digit range compared to 2011. It is estimated that 30% to 40% of the research and development expenses in 2012 will be incurred on late-stage development programs. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on research and development. See " Reconciliation of Certain NON-GAAP Line Items to Certain GAAP Line Items".
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, on a GAAP basis for the three months ended September 30, 2012 were $1.1 billion, which included specified items of $70 million. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2012 marketing, selling and administrative expenses were $1.0 billion. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects marketing, selling and administrative expenses for the full year 2012 to decrease in the low-single digit range compared to 2011. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on marketing, selling and administrative expense. See " Reconciliation of Certain NON-GAAP Line Items to Certain GAAP Line Items".
The effective tax benefit rate on a GAAP basis for the three months ended September 30, 2012 was 43.4%, which included specified tax benefit of $722 million, and had a (22.9)% impact on the effective tax rate in aggregate. On a non-GAAP basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2012 the effective tax rate was 20.5%. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company projects an annual effective tax rate of approximately 23%, which assumes the extension of the R&D tax credit for the full year 2012. There is no reasonably accessible or reliable comparable GAAP measure for this forward-looking information on the tax rate. See " Reconciliation of Certain NON-GAAP Line Items to Certain GAAP Line Items".
The GAAP financial results for the full year 2012 will include specified items that may occur and impact results, including expected charges associated with downsizing and streamlining worldwide operations, impairment charges, milestone payments, net amortization of Amylin intangible assets and deferred revenue, acquisitions costs and significant legal proceedings. The GAAP financial results for the full year 2012 could also include other specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified, including any gains or losses from acquisitions or divestitures, additional upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, charges for in-process research and development and licensed asset impairments, charges and recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings, restructuring activities and significant tax events. For a fuller discussion of certain litigation and other matters that could impact full year GAAP results, as well as the use of non-GAAP financial information, see Bristol-Myers Squibb Reports Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results, October 24, 2012 including "2012 Financial Guidance" and "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" therein.
 


