FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20121003083020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 27, 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") entered into an agreement (the "Master Restructuring Agreement") with Sanofi to restructure the companies' alliance for the development and commercialization of clopidogrel and irbesartan, which the two companies co-promote and co-market worldwide (except Japan which is not covered by the alliance) under numerous trademarks, including and . Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement, the Company and Sanofi will enter into a number of agreements intended to simplify the overall governance, and operating and financial principles of their alliance arrangements.
Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate)
Avapro/Avalide (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide)
Subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, effective as of January 1, 2013, Sanofi will assume the operations of the alliance with respect to clopidogrel and irbesartan products worldwide with the exception of clopidogrel for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The alliance for clopidogrel in these two markets will continue unchanged through December 2019 under the same terms as in the existing alliance arrangements. In exchange for the rights being assumed by Sanofi, the Company will receive from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 specified royalty payments on Sanofi's sales of branded and unbranded worldwide, excluding the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and sales of branded and unbranded worldwide. In addition, the Company will receive at the end of 2018 a terminal payment from Sanofi of $200 million.
Plavix
Avapro/Avalide
The alliance currently operates under a framework consisting of two geographic territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries (other than Japan, which is not covered by the alliance), referred to as "Territory A", and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as "Territory B". Within each territory, a territorial partnership exists to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement, the Company will, through various mechanisms depending on the territory, return to Sanofi its rights for clopidogrel and irbesartan in all markets with the exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, where the Company will continue to act as the operating partner and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest. All currently existing local arrangements in Territory A and Territory B (with the exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico), will be terminated by mutual agreement. No products will continue to be sold through such local country entities in these territories. In addition, Sanofi will assume all marketing authorizations for the products, to the extent currently held by the Company or any of its affiliates. As a result, Sanofi will assume control of all activities relating to the distribution, commercialization and medical affairs of clopidogrel and irbesartan in these regions.
Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements, Sanofi will assume the Company's manufacturing and supply obligations of irbesartan products at the end of 2015. The Company does not manufacture bulk clopidogrel and will no longer finish clopidogrel products in its facilities. The Company will retain rights to the intellectual property developed by the alliance necessary to fulfill its continuing obligations under the alliance arrangements and to develop and commercialize any potential fixed dose combinations using clopidogrel or irbesartan with its other products.
Under the Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements, the alliance will remain in effect through December 2018 until Sanofi's payment of the terminal fee, with the exception of the U.S. and Puerto Rico, where the alliance will remain in effect through December 2019.
The Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements may be terminated by either Sanofi or the Company in the event of any voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days. The original termination provisions of the alliance also remain in effect with respect to clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.
The Master Restructuring Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants (including a non-competition covenant), and provisions with respect to mutual indemnification of and by the parties (including with respect to intellectual property damages). Amendments and/or terminations of the existing alliance agreements, including the Alliance Support Agreements, Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreements, and Product Know-How License Agreements for Territories A and B, will be executed subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals from certain anti-trust authorities. If these amendments have not been entered into by a specified date, the Master Restructuring Agreement may be terminated by mutual written consent, provided that the failure to do so was not the result of either party's breach.
On October 3, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the restructuring of the Company's alliance with Sanofi as described above. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(PARIS and NEW YORK, October 3, 2012)  Sanofi (EURONEXT: SAN and NYSE: SNY) and (NYSE: BMY) today announced they have restructured their successful long-term alliance following the loss of exclusivity of and in many major markets.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Plavix
Avapro/Avalide
Under the terms of the revised agreement, which will go into effect January 1, 2013, Bristol-Myers Squibb will return to Sanofi its rights to and in all markets worldwide with the exception of in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, giving Sanofi sole control and freedom to operate commercially. In exchange, Bristol-Myers Squibb will receive royalty payments on Sanofi's sales of branded and unbranded worldwide, excluding the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and on sales of branded and unbranded worldwide, in each case through 2018, and will receive a terminal payment of U.S. $200 million from Sanofi in December 2018. rights in the U.S. and Puerto Rico will continue unchanged under the terms of the existing agreement through December 2019.
Plavix
Avapro/Avalide
Plavix
Plavix
Avapro/Avalide
Plavix
"Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi have had a long and successful collaboration helping patients with cardiovascular disease," said Lamberto Andreotti, chief executive officer, Bristol-Myers Squibb. "This revised agreement simplifies operations and supports Bristol-Myers Squibb's ability to focus on delivering our promising, innovation-driven R&D portfolio and setting the foundation for future success."
"Our alliance with Bristol-Myers Squibb has been extremely successful and value-generating for both partners," said Hanspeter Spek, president, Global Operations, Sanofi. "The revised agreement further supports Sanofi's strategic priorities while continuing to offer the clinical benefits of these well-established products to millions of patients around the world."
In addition, under the terms of the agreement ongoing disputes between the companies related to the alliance have been resolved. The resolution of these disputes includes various commitments by both companies, including a one-time payment of $80 million by Bristol-Myers Squibb to Sanofi in relation to the Avalide supply disruption in the U.S. in 2011.
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit www.bms.com or follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/bmsnews.
About Sanofi
Sanofi, a global and diversified healthcare leader, discovers, develops and distributes therapeutic solutions focused on patients' needs. Sanofi has core strengths in the field of healthcare with seven growth platforms: diabetes solutions, human vaccines, innovative drugs, consumer healthcare, emerging markets, animal health and the new Genzyme. Sanofi is listed in Paris (EURONEXT: SAN) and in New York (NYSE: SNY).
Contact:
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Media: Jennifer Fron Mauer, 609-252-6579;
jennifer.mauer@bms.com
or
Investors: John Elicker, 609-252-4611;
john.elicker@bms.com
Sanofi
Media: Marisol Pron, +33 (0)1 53 77 45 02,
mr@sanofi.com
or
Investor: Sbastien Martel, +33 (0)1 53 77 45 45, ir@sanofi.com


