FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20120809182638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 8, 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") completed its previously announced acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceutials, Inc. ("Amylin"), through the merger (the "Merger") of B&R Acquisition Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Purchaser"), with and into Amylin, with Amylin surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
As previously disclosed, on June 29, 2012, the Company, the Purchaser and Amylin entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Purchaser commenced a cash tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Amylin (the "Shares"), at a price per share equal to $31.00, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes, upon the terms and subject to the conditions disclosed in the offer to purchase included in the tender offer statement on Schedule TO and in the related letter of transmittal (as amended or supplemented from time to time) filed by the Company and Purchaser with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on July 10, 2012 (the "Offer").
The Offer expired at 5:00 PM, New York City time, on August 7, 2012. The depositary for the Offer advised that 140,550,153 Shares were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn (not counting as validly tendered Shares tendered through notice of guaranteed delivery and not actually tendered), representing approximately 85.55% of the outstanding Shares. All Shares that were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn were accepted for payment in accordance with the terms of the Offer.
On August 8, 2012, Purchaser exercised its option under the Merger Agreement (the "Top-Up Option") to acquire from Amylin a number of additional Shares for $31.00 per share (the "Top-Up Shares") to ensure that Purchaser and the Company could effect a short-form merger under applicable Delaware law. Immediately following the issuance of the Top-Up Shares to Purchaser, Purchaser owned in excess of 90% of the outstanding Shares at such time.
Also on August 8, 2012, Purchaser effected a "short-form" merger under Delaware law, pursuant to which the Merger was completed. In the Merger, each Share (other than any Shares held by the Company, Purchaser, held in treasury by Amylin or held by any stockholders who validly exercised their appraisal rights in connection with the Merger under Delaware law), restricted stock unit and stock option was cancelled and extinguished and automatically converted into the right to receive $31.00 in cash, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes and, with respect to stock options, less the applicable exercise price. All time-based restricted stock units were cancelled and extinguished as specified in the previous sentence while only the portion of the performance-based restricted stock units that would have vested had the applicable performance objectives been achieved at target levels were cancelled and extinguished as specified in the previous sentence.
The aggregate consideration in the Offer and the Merger to acquire all of the outstanding Shares and for payments with respect to restricted stock units and stock options, is approximately $5.3 billion in cash. The Company has funded the consideration for the Shares, restricted stock units and options acquired in the Offer and the Merger through cash on hand, the net proceeds from a notes offering and the issuance of commercial paper, all as previously disclosed.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on August 8, 2012 regarding the expiration and results of the tender offer and filed as Exhibit (a)(5)(P) to Schedule TO-T/A filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the press release issued by the Company on August 9, 2012 regarding the completion of the Merger, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 9, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
(PRINCETON, New Jersey, August 9, 2012)  (NYSE: BMY) announced that yesterday it successfully completed the tender offer by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ("Bristol-Myers Squibb") through its wholly owned subsidiary, B&R Acquisition Company, for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMLN) ("Amylin") at a purchase price of $31.00 per share.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Compan
y
As of the expiration of the offer yesterday, 140,550,153 shares of common stock of Amylin were validly tendered and not withdrawn in the tender offer. As part of the successful completion of the tender offer, Bristol-Myers Squibb exercised its right granted under the merger agreement with Amylin pursuant to which the tender offer was made to purchase additional shares from Amylin which would allow Bristol-Myers Squibb to complete the merger without stockholder approval.
Also yesterday, Bristol-Myers Squibb acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of Amylin common stock by means of a "short form merger" in which all such shares, other than shares held by Amylin in treasury or shares held by Amylin's stockholders who are entitled to and have properly exercised appraisal rights under Delaware law, were converted into the right to receive $31.00 per share, in cash and without interest, less any applicable withholding taxes. Bristol-Myers Squibb intends to delist and de-register Amylin common stock as promptly as practicable following the effective time of the merger.
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
Contacts
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Media:
Jennifer Fron Mauer, 609-252-6579,
jennifer.mauer@bms.com
Laura Hortas, (609) 252-4587,
laura.hortas@bms.com
Investors:
Timothy Power, 609-252-7509,
timothy.power@bms.com
Amylin
Media:
Alice Izzo, 858-642-7272,
alice.izzo@amylin.com
Investors:
Christine Everett-Zedelmayer, 858-458-8517,
christine.everett@amylin.com


