FILE:BMY/BMY-8K-20120803162034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 1, 2012 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had suspended study drug administration in an ongoing Phase II study of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor in development for the treatment of hepatitis C. This voluntary action was taken to protect patient safety based on the emergence of a serious safety issue. The cause of the safety issue and any potential relationship to study drug are unknown at this time. The Company acquired BMS-986094 when it completed its acquisition of Inhibitex, Inc. in February 2012. The carrying value of this in-process research and development intangible asset was $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2012. The Company is assessing whether an impairment is required. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(Princeton, NJ, August 1, 2012) - (NYSE: BMY) announced today that the Company has suspended study drug administration in an ongoing Phase II study of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor in development for the treatment of hepatitis C. This voluntary action was taken to protect patient safety based on the emergence of a serious safety issue. The cause of the safety issue and any potential relationship to study drug are unknown at this time.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
With patient safety as the priority, the Company is undertaking an immediate assessment of all patients in the study and following an evaluation of the patient data, will take appropriate actions.
About Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information, please visit or follow us on Twitter at .
www.bms.com
http://twitter.com/bmsnews
 


