FILE:DF/DF-8K-20030508093026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure
Attached as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 are two press releases issued by the registrant on May 8, 2003.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the first quarter of 2003, issued May 8, 2003, which is being furnished pursuant to Item 12. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     DALLAS, May 8, 2003  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Net income for the first quarter was $63.2 million, compared with a loss of $29.6 million in the first quarter of 2002. Diluted earnings per share were $0.65, compared with a loss of $0.23 per share in the first quarter of 2002. First quarter net sales totaled $2.1 billion, a decline of 4% over the first quarter of 2002. The decline was due primarily to lower raw material costs that are passed on to customers in the form of lower selling prices.
     On a pro forma basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share for the first quarter totaled $0.64, an increase of 14% compared with pro forma earnings of $0.56 per share in last year's first quarter. Pro forma net income for the first quarter grew 12% to $62.2 million compared with pro forma net income of $55.4 million in the first quarter of 2002.
     "We again saw strong performance across all of our business units," said Gregg Engles, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our branded product efforts continued to bear fruit, as Morningstar/White Wave showed exceptional 32% volume gains in our strategic brand portfolio. Our growth and investment behind those brands were driven by strong operating profits and margins in our Dairy Group, Specialty Foods and International operations."
 
     The company reported first quarter operating income of $157.0 million versus $145.8 million in the first quarter of 2002. Pro forma operating income totaled $155.3 million, an increase of 6% over pro forma operating income of $147.0 million in the first quarter of 2002. Pro forma first quarter 2003 operating income margins were 7.24%, an increase of 63 basis points versus the pro forma results from the first quarter of last year. Operating income margin improvement was due primarily to improvement in Dairy Group and Specialty margins, offset by increased investment behind the strategic brand portfolio.
     Long-term debt at March 31, 2003 was approximately $2.8 billion, including $185.2 million due within one year that is reported as part of current liabilities. At the end of the quarter, approximately $715 million of the company's $2.7 billion bank facility was available for future borrowings.
TIPES REDEMPTION, SHARE REPURCHASE AND STOCK SPLIT
     On April 17, Dean Capital Trust, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dean Foods, successfully converted approximately 99% of a $100 million tranche of its 5 1/2 % Trust Issued Preferred Equity Securities (TIPES) into common stock. Shortly thereafter, Dean Foods announced the redemption of another $200 million tranche of TIPES to be completed on May 22, 2003 at a redemption price of $51.0315 per security. The company anticipates funding any cash redemptions of TIPES using cash flow from operations and borrowings under the company's senior credit facility. Following the completion of the company's second partial redemption, approximately $300 million of TIPES will remain outstanding.
     As previously announced, during the first quarter, the company announced that its Board of Directors approved a total increase of $300 million to the company's share repurchase program, allowing the company to purchase shares of its common stock in open market or privately negotiated transactions. Pursuant to the share repurchase authorization, the company repurchased 3.24 million shares of common stock during the quarter at an average price of $39.72 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $129 million. Approximately $172 million remains available for spending under the share repurchase program.
     In a separate press release today, the company announced a three-for-two split of its common stock. The stock split will be payable June 9, 2003 to stockholders of record as of May 23, 2003.
OUTLOOK
     "Given the strength of our underlying businesses, we are excited about our future as a leading food and beverage company," Engles said. "We are confident about the balance of the year, and we are re-affirming our prior earnings per share goal for 2003."
 
     The company also noted that it issued a separate press release today announcing organizational changes designed to enhance its branded foods strategy and enable the company to realize additional manufacturing efficiencies.
     "We continue to sharpen our focus, lower our cost structure and capitalize on our competitive advantages," continued Engles. "We remain committed to driving increased shareholder value, and I am confident that these changes will enable us to become a stronger organization, capable of capturing the tremendous opportunities ahead."
FIRST QUARTER RECONCILIATION OF PRO FORMA RESULTS WITH GAAP RESULTS
     For the first quarter of 2003, the pro forma results reported above differ from the company's results under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) by excluding a $1.7 million gain related to the disposition of a Dairy Group plant in Michigan.
     For the first quarter of 2002, the pro forma results reported above differ from the company's results under GAAP by excluding the following items:
     Pro forma results are provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the company's operating performance between periods. A reconciliation table between diluted earnings per share calculated according to GAAP and pro forma diluted earnings per share (as defined above) is attached.
SEGMENT RESULTS
     Dairy Group net sales for the first quarter totaled $1.7 billion, a decline of 5% over $1.8 billion in the first quarter of 2002. The first quarter sales decline was due primarily to lower raw material costs that are passed on to customers in the form of lower selling prices.
     Dairy Group pro forma operating income in the first quarter improved 7% to $136.7 million, and pro forma operating margins increased 95 basis points to 8.12% of sales, due to operating efficiencies and lower raw milk costs. The first quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the company's Class I raw milk prices, was $10.20 per hundred weight in the first quarter of 2003, a 14% decline versus last year.
 
     Morningstar/White Wave net sales in the first quarter totaled $239.2 million, virtually flat to last year, as the inclusion of White Wave results in 2003 offset the previously-announced termination of the Nestle and Lactaid co-packing business.
     Pro forma operating income in the first quarter for Morningstar/White Wave was $12.0 million, and pro forma operating margins were down 465 basis points to 5.04%, in line with the company's previously-announced expectations given heavy spending against its strategic brands. Over half of the margin decline in the segment is attributable to increased year-over-year marketing spending at Morningstar, with the balance attributable to the inclusion of White Wave in the segment following its acquisition in May 2002.
     Specialty Foods' net sales totaled $162.9 million, an increase of 1% over the prior year first quarter, and operating income was $23.8 million, an increase of 15%. First quarter operating income margin increased 173 basis points to 14.62%.
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
     A webcast to discuss the company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:00 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcasts" section of the company site at www.deanfoods.com.
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
     Dean Foods Company is one of the nation's leading food and beverage companies. The company produces a full line of company-branded and private label dairy and dairy-related products such as milk and milk-based beverages, ice cream, coffee creamers, half and half, whipping cream, whipped toppings, sour cream, cottage cheese, yogurt, dips, dressings and soy milk. The company is also a leading manufacturer of pickles and other specialty food products, juice, juice drinks and water. The company operates over 120 plants in 36 U.S. states and Spain, and employs approximately 28,000 people.
     
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, the company's projected earnings per share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results during 2003, including targeted sales, operating margins, earnings per share and cash flow depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, many of which are beyond the company's control and which are described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including primarily consumer acceptance of the company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
[A] Pro forma results differ from our results reported under GAAP by excluding the following items in order to report both periods on a comparable basis:
In the first quarter of 2003 pro forma results exclude a gain on the disposition of a closed plant. In the first quarter of 2002 pro forma results exclude plant closing costs, the results of discontinued operations, and the cumulative effect of accounting change related to the write-down of certain trademarks and goodwill due to the implementation of FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets".
 
[B] Cumulative effect of accounting change in 2002 related to the write-down of certain trademarks and goodwill due to the implementation of FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets".
[C] Pro forma results differ from our results reported under GAAP by excluding the following items in order to report both periods on a comparable basis:
In the first quarter of 2003 pro forma results exclude a gain on the disposition of a closed plant. In the first quarter of 2002 pro forma results exclude plant closing costs.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
     DALLAS, May 8, 2003  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced several organizational changes designed to enhance the company's branded products strategy and to enable the company to realize additional manufacturing efficiencies. The result of these changes will be to create the Dean Branded Products Group, which will be responsible for marketing and selling Dean's nationally branded products, and to transfer all of the company's private label dairy products and all dairy manufacturing assets to the Dean Dairy Group.
     Over the balance of 2003, responsibility for manufacturing, selling and distributing Morningstar Foods' extensive portfolio of private label, long shelf-life dairy products will be shifted to the company's Dairy Group. Morningstar Foods will be renamed Dean Branded Products Group, and all of Morningstar Foods' manufacturing facilities for both branded and private label products will be transferred to the Dairy Group, which will act as a manufacturing and distribution partner for the Dean Branded Products Group.
     The Dean Branded Products Group will be focused on the company's strategic brand portfolio, which currently includes International Delight coffee creamers, Hershey's milks and milkshakes, Land O Lakes extended-shelf life dairy products, Folgers Jakada single-serve chilled coffee and milk beverage, Marie's dips and dressings and Dean's dips. The Dean Branded Products Group will sell and market the company's nationally branded products and will add to its portfolio over time through the development or acquisition of new and innovative value-added products.
     "This is an important step to sharpen our focus, lower our cost structure and capitalize on our competitive advantages," said Gregg Engles, chairman and chief executive officer of Dean Foods. "The creation of the Dean Branded Products Group will give us, for the first time, an organization solely and completely focused on driving
 
the growth of our strategic brands. As we increasingly invest in branded growth, the Dean Branded Products Group is where we intend to invest in the resources necessary for success.
     "The shift of Morningstar's private label dairy business into the Dairy Group will allow us to capitalize on our position as the nation's leading dairy supplier by significantly expanding our Dairy Group's product offerings and simplifying our customers' supply chain," continued Engles. "Moreover, consolidation of all domestic dairy manufacturing within the Dairy Group will create significant plant rationalization opportunities as we continue to lower our cost structure."
     The company also announced the resignation of Herman "Bing" Graffunder, president of Morningstar Foods. Graffunder is leaving to pursue other interests, and will remain with the company through July 1. "Bing's contributions to our company have been significant. We have been fortunate to have had the benefit of his talent and expertise over the last several years," said Engles.
     The company noted that it has begun a targeted search for an individual to lead the Dean Branded Products Group and intends to complete the search quickly. In the interim, Engles will work closely with Graffunder and the Morningstar leadership team to ensure a smooth transition.
     White Wave, maker of Silk, Sun Soy and White Wave soy products, will continue to be managed and run separately in Boulder, Co., under the leadership of Steve Demos, president and founder. Demos will continue to report directly to Engles. Jim Greisinger, president of Specialty Foods, will continue in his role, and will now report directly to Engles.
     "We remain committed to driving increased shareholder value, and I am confident that these changes will enable us to become a stronger organization, capable of capturing the tremendous opportunities ahead," Engles concluded.
     For segment reporting purposes, 2003 will be treated as a transition year during which segment results will be reported consistently with prior years. Realignment of the Dairy Group and the Branded Products Group is expected to be complete by January 2004. At that time, a new segment reporting structure will be established, and the operating results of the new Dean Foods Branded Products Group will be aggregated with White Wave, thereby reflecting only the results of the strategic brand portfolio. The Dairy Group segment will then include the results of Morningstar Foods' current private-label business, in addition to its historical fluid dairy operations.
     Dean Foods Company is one of the nation's leading food and beverage companies. The company produces a full line of company-branded and private label dairy products such as milk and milk-based beverages, ice cream, coffee creamers, half and half, whipping cream, whipped toppings, sour cream, cottage cheese, yogurt,
 
dips, dressings and soy milk. The company is also a leading manufacturer of pickles and other specialty food products, juice, juice drinks and water. The company operates over 120 plants in 36 U.S. states and Spain, and employs approximately 28,000 people.
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to the company's expectation that it will benefit from its re-aligned organization structure, including specifically through lowering its cost structure and enhancing its branded product strategy. These statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives will depend on a number of factors, including primarily consumer acceptance of the company's products. The company's ability to meaningfully lower its cost structure within the projected timeframe will also depend on a number of factors, including whether and how quickly it can identify and implement cost saving initiatives. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
     DALLAS, February 21, 2002  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a two-for-one split of its common stock. The split will entitle shareholders of record on April 8, 2002 to receive one additional share of common stock for each share held on that date.
     The split will be effected on April 24, 2002. As a result of the split, the total number of shares of common stock outstanding will increase from approximately 44.4 million to approximately 88.8 million.
     Dean Foods Company is one of the nation's leading food and beverage companies. The company produces a full line of company-branded and private label dairy products such as milk and milk-based beverages, ice cream, coffee creamers, half and half, whipping cream, whipped toppings, sour cream, cottage cheese, yogurt, dips, dressing and soy milk. The company is also a leading supplier of pickles and other specialty food products, juice, juice drinks and water. The company operates over 120 plant in 39 states and 3 countries, and employees more than 30,000 people.


