FILE:DF/DF-8K-20050627171819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On June 27, 2005, we completed the spin-off of our indirect majority owned subsidiary TreeHouse Foods, Inc. ("TreeHouse"). Immediately prior to the spin-off, we transferred to TreeHouse the business previously conducted by our Specialty Foods Group segment in addition to our ,  and foodservice salad dressings businesses (collectively, the "transferred businesses"). The spin-off was effected by means of a share dividend of the TreeHouse common stock held by us to our stockholders of record on June 20, 2005 (the "Record Date"). In the distribution, our stockholders received one share of TreeHouse common stock for every five shares of our common stock held by them on the Record Date.
Mocha Mix
Second Nature
     Following the distribution, we will concentrate our operations on our dairy and branded products businesses. TreeHouse is now an independent public company trading under the symbol "THS" on the New York Stock Exchange. We continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DF."
     Further information concerning the distribution and related matters is contained in the Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended, filed by TreeHouse with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 14, 2005.
     Copies of the distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement executed by us in connection with the distribution are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein. The material terms of these agreements are described below. Pursuant to the terms of the distribution agreement, we and certain of our subsidiaries also entered into a transition services agreement, an employee matters agreement, trademark license agreements, and a co-pack agreement with TreeHouse in connection with the spin-off transaction.
Distribution Agreement
     On June 27, 2005, we entered into a distribution agreement with TreeHouse. The distribution agreement provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation of the TreeHouse business from us, the distribution of TreeHouse common stock owned by us to the holders of record of our common stock and certain other agreements governing TreeHouse's relationship with us after the distribution date.
     Pursuant to the distribution agreement, we have transferred, or caused our subsidiaries to transfer, to TreeHouse our right, title and interest in all properties, assets and rights of every nature, kind and description, tangible and intangible (including goodwill), whether real, personal or mixed, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise that primarily related to, or were primarily held for use in connection with, the transferred businesses, including but not limited to:
The Transfer.
 
     The transfers occurred immediately prior to the distribution of TreeHouse common stock owned by us to our stockholders and were made on an "as is, where is" basis without any representations or warranties, and TreeHouse will bear the economic and legal risks of the transfer. Pursuant to the distribution agreement, TreeHouse also has assumed and agreed to perform and fulfill all of the liabilities arising after the distribution date out of the ownership or use of the transferred assets or the operation of the transferred businesses both before and after the transfer.
     The distribution agreement provides for cross-indemnities principally designed to place financial responsibility for the liabilities of the transferred businesses with TreeHouse and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our retained businesses with us, except as may otherwise be set forth in the distribution agreement. Other than the specific indemnities and in certain other limited instances set forth therein, the distribution agreement provides for TreeHouse and its affiliates to release us and our affiliates and for us and our affiliates to release TreeHouse and its affiliates from all liabilities arising from or based on facts existing on or before the distribution date. The distribution agreement establishes procedures with respect to indemnification claims, releases and related matters.
Indemnification, Releases and Insurance Matters.
     The distribution agreement also provides for the allocation of benefits between TreeHouse and us under existing insurance policies after the distribution date for occurrences prior to the distribution date and sets forth procedures for the administration of insured claims.
     The distribution agreement contains provisions that govern, except as otherwise provided in any related agreement, the resolution of disputes, controversies or claims that may arise between TreeHouse and us. These provisions contemplate that efforts will be made to resolve disputes, controversies and claims by escalation of the matter to senior management or other mutually agreed representatives of TreeHouse and us. If such efforts are not successful, either TreeHouse or we will be permitted to submit the dispute, controversy or claim to a court for resolution.
Dispute Resolution.
Tax Sharing Agreement
     One June 27, 2005, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with TreeHouse which generally governs TreeHouse's and our respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes attributable to the TreeHouse business, as well as any taxes incurred by us as a result of the failure of the distribution to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
     Under the tax sharing agreement, TreeHouse is, with certain exceptions, liable for all U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes attributable to the TreeHouse business that are required to be paid after the distribution. The tax sharing agreement sets forth rules for determining which taxes are attributable to the TreeHouse business and rules on the effect of subsequent adjustments to those taxes due to tax audits or examinations.
General Taxes.
     Under the tax sharing agreement, TreeHouse is liable for taxes that may be incurred by us that arise from the failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) if the failure to so qualify is attributable to actions, events, or transactions relating to the stock, assets, or business of TreeHouse or any of its affiliates, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by TreeHouse in the tax sharing agreement or the distribution agreement or to Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP in connection with rendering its opinion. If the failure of the distribution to qualify under Section 355 of the Code is attributable to a breach of certain representations made by both TreeHouse and
Distribution-Related Taxes.
 
us or a change in law or change in the interpretation or application of any existing law after the execution of the tax sharing agreement, TreeHouse will be liable for 50% of the taxes arising from the failure to so qualify. Under the tax sharing agreement, TreeHouse is also liable for taxes (not to exceed $20 million) arising from certain intercompany transactions effectuated in connection with the distribution. We expect that TreeHouse will be required to reimburse us for taxes under this provision, but are unable to estimate the amount at this time.
     The tax sharing agreement also sets forth TreeHouse's and our respective obligations with respect to the filing of tax returns, the administration of tax contests, assistance and cooperation and other matters.
Administrative Matters.
Adjustments to Our Outstanding Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units
     Shortly after the distribution, except with respect to the treatment of certain options held by Mr. Engles, as described below, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors will adjust all outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock and all restricted stock units to reflect the distribution, as permitted by our applicable equity incentive plans. Specifically, the number of shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options and the per share exercise price of those options will be adjusted to reflect the change in value of our common stock as a result of the distribution in a manner that, on an option-by-option basis, (x) preserves the spread between the exercise price of each outstanding option and the fair market value of the underlying common stock as valued before the adjustment, which includes the value of TreeHouse, and (y) produces a ratio of the exercise price of each option to the fair market value of the underlying common stock as valued after the adjustment, which excludes the value of TreeHouse, that is equal to the ratio of the exercise price of that option to the fair market value of the underlying common stock as valued before the adjustment, which includes the value of TreeHouse. In addition, the number of shares subject to outstanding restricted stock units will be adjusted to reflect the change in value of our common stock as a result of the distribution in a manner that, on a unit-by-unit basis, preserves the value of each outstanding restricted stock unit as valued before the adjustment, which includes the value of TreeHouse. The purpose of these adjustments will be to ensure that the stock options and the restricted stock units outstanding at the date of the distribution have the same value before and after the distribution.
     All options to purchase shares of our common stock held by former employees who became employees of TreeHouse in connection with the distribution will be adjusted as described above. In addition, all such options will vest and shall remain exercisable until the 60th day following the date of distribution (unless sooner cancelled in accordance with the applicable option agreement), and all such restricted stock units will vest and shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable restricted stock unit agreement.
     Mr. Engles, Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, is a nonemployee member of TreeHouse's Board of Directors. Shortly after the distribution, his vested options to purchase shares of our common stock will be adjusted pro rata into the vested right to purchase shares of our common stock and the vested right to purchase shares of TreeHouse common stock based on the distribution ratio. Mr. Engles' unvested options to acquire shares of our common stock will be adjusted in the same manner as those of our other employees as described above. Following such adjustment, the aggregate value of Mr. Engles' options, including both those related to TreeHouse and those related to our common stock, will have the same value as Mr. Engles' outstanding options prior to the distribution.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     A copy of the press release relating to our announcement of the completion of the spin-off transaction is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information in this Form 8-K under "Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
     See the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
          THIS DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT is made on June 27, 2005 by and between Dean Foods Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and TreeHouse Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Dean
TreeHouse
          WHEREAS, Dean, through its subsidiaries, operates the Specialty Foods Group, , , and food service dressings businesses (collectively, the "");
MochaMix
SecondNature
Transferred Businesses
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Dean has determined that it would be advisable and in the best interests of Dean and its stockholders for Dean to transfer and assign, or cause to be transferred and assigned, to TreeHouse substantially all the business, operations, assets and liabilities related to the Transferred Businesses;
          WHEREAS, Dean desires to transfer and assign, or cause to be transferred or assigned, to the TreeHouse Parties the assets and properties of the Transferred Businesses and the TreeHouse Parties desire to accept the transfer and assignment of such assets and to assume, or cause to be assumed, the liabilities and obligations arising out of or relating to the Transferred Businesses (the "");
Contribution
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Dean has determined that it would be advisable and in the best interests of Dean and its stockholders for Dean to distribute on a pro rata basis to the holders of Dean's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), without any consideration being paid by the holders of such Dean Common Stock, all of the outstanding shares of TreeHouse common stock, par value $0.01 per share (together with the preferred share purchase rights associated therewith, the ""), then owned by Dean (the "");
Dean Common Stock
TreeHouse Common Stock
Distribution
          WHEREAS, for federal income tax purposes, the Distribution is intended to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""); and
Code
          WHEREAS, it is appropriate and desirable to set forth the principal transactions required to effect the Contribution and Distribution and certain other agreements that will govern the relationship of Dean and TreeHouse following the Distribution.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
          Section 1.1 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 1.1.
Definitions
 
          "" means any action, claim, demand, suit, arbitration, inquiry, subpoena, discovery request, proceeding or investigation by or before any court or grand jury, any governmental or other regulatory or administrative entity, agency or commission or any arbitration tribunal, domestic or foreign.
Actions
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person. For the purpose of this definition, the term "control" means the power to direct the management of an entity, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the term "controlled" has the meaning correlative to the foregoing. After the Distribution, TreeHouse and Dean shall not be deemed to be under common control for purposes hereof due solely to the fact that TreeHouse and Dean have common stockholders.
Affiliate
          "" means The Bank of New York, the distribution agent appointed by Dean to distribute shares of TreeHouse Common Stock pursuant to the Distribution.
Agent
          "" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Agreement
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(a).
Assumed Actions
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Assumed Liabilities
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).
Balance Sheet
          "" means the Co-Pack Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Dean and TreeHouse.
Co-Pack Agreement
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Code
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(h).
Contracts
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Contribution
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Conveyancing Instruments
          "" means United States and foreign copyrights, both registered and unregistered, along with the registrations and applications to register any such copyrights.
Copyrights
          "" means, collectively, each of the mergers, transfers, conveyances, contributions, distributions, dividends, assignments, redemptions and other transactions described or contemplated by the Information Statement and the Private Letter Ruling (or in the various Private Letter Ruling request submissions made to the IRS in connection therewith).
Corporate Transactions
          "" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Dean
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Dean Common Stock
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
Dean Indemnified Parties
 
          "" means Dean and its Subsidiaries (including those formed or acquired after the date hereof).
Dean Parties
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.
Dean Policies
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
Distribution
          "" means the date on which the Distribution is paid to holders of Dean Common Stock on the Record Date.
Distribution Date
          "" means the Employee Matters Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Dean and TreeHouse.
Employee Matters Agreement
          "" means the Employment Agreements, dated as of January 27, 2005, between TreeHouse and each of the Management Investors.
Employment Agreements
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b).
Environmental Permits
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1(a).
Escalation Notice
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" means any and all expenses incurred in connection with investigating, defending or asserting any claim, action, suit or proceeding incident to any matter indemnified against hereunder (including court filing fees, court costs, arbitration fees or costs, witness fees, and reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel, investigators, expert witnesses, consultants, accountants and other professionals).
Expenses
          "" means, with respect to any currency other than United States dollars, as of any date of determination, the average of the opening bid and asked rates on such date at which such currency may be exchanged for United States dollars as quoted by Citibank, N.A. (or any successor thereto or other major money center commercial bank agreed to by the Parties).
Foreign Exchange Rate
          "" means any foreign, federal, state, local or other government, governmental, statutory or administrative authority, regulatory body or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.
Governmental Authority
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a).
Indemnified Party
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a).
Indemnifying Party
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a).
Indemnity Payment
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.1(a).
Information
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.7.
Information Statement
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.6.
Insurance Charges
 
          "" means any Contract between Dean or one of its Subsidiaries and TreeHouse or one of its Subsidiaries entered into prior to the Distribution excluding this Agreement and the Operating Agreements.
Intercompany Agreements
          "" means the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.9.
Letters of Credit
          "" means any and all debts, liabilities and obligations, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising (unless otherwise specified in this Agreement), including all costs and expenses relating thereto, and including, without limitation, those debts, liabilities and obligations arising under any law, rule, regulation, Action, threatened Action, order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitrator of any kind, and those arising under any contract, commitment or undertaking.
Liability
          "" means any and all losses, costs, obligations, liabilities, settlement payments, awards, judgments, fines, penalties, damages, fees, expenses, deficiencies, claims or other charges, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown (including, without limitation, the costs and expenses of any and all Actions, threatened Actions, demands, assessments, judgments, settlements and compromises relating thereto and attorneys' fees and any and all expenses whatsoever reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any such Actions or threatened Actions).
Losses
          "" means Sam K. Reed, David B. Vermylen, E. Nichol McCully, Thomas E. O'Neill, and Harry J. Walsh.
Management Investors
          "" means any material notices, reports or other filings to be made with or to, or any material consents, registrations, approvals, permits, clearances or authorizations to be obtained from, any Governmental Authority.
Material Governmental Approvals and Consents
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.9.
Non-Permitted Names
          "" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
          "" means the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Trademark License Agreements, the Co-Pack Agreement, and any other agreement regarding the ongoing business and service relationships between the Dean Parties and TreeHouse following the Distribution.
Operating Agreements
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(i).
Owned Real Property
          "" means Dean or TreeHouse.
Party
          "" means United States and foreign patents and applications for patents, including any continuations, continuations-in-part, divisions, renewals, reissues and extensions thereof.
Patents
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.6.
Payment Period
 
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or Governmental Authority.
Person
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e).
Personal Property Leases
          "" means the prime rate as published in The Wall Street Journal on the last day of the applicable Payment Period.
Prime Rate
          "" means the private letter ruling received by Dean from the IRS on April 29, 2005.
Private Letter Ruling
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.8(a).
Privilege
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.8(a).
Privileged Information
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(ii).
Real Estate Leases
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
Receivables
          "" means the date determined by the Board of Directors of Dean as the record date for the Distribution.
Record Date
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.7.
Registration Statement
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.
Retained Assets
          "" means the business of Dean and its Subsidiaries other than the Transferred Businesses.
Retained Business
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(h).
Retained Contracts
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Retained Liabilities
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(e).
Retained Names
          "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.9.
Self Insurance Costs
          "" means any Contract with a third Person that directly benefits both Dean and TreeHouse following the Distribution.
Shared Contracts
          "" means computer software programs, in source code and object code form, including, without limitation, all related source diagrams, flow charts, specifications, documentation and all other materials and documentation necessary to allow a reasonably skilled third party programmer or technician to maintain, support or enhance the Software.
Software
 
          "" means the following Liabilities of any Dean Party:
Specified Employee Liabilities
     (a) any termination or severance payments or benefits owing or becoming payable to any Business Employee;
     (b) any liability resulting from any collective bargaining agreement entered into between any Dean Party and a union representing a Business Employee, any liability resulting from TreeHouse's failure to assume any such collective bargaining agreement, or any liability resulting from any negotiation or any amendments or modifications to such collective bargaining agreements that TreeHouse negotiates or implements;
     (c) any liability resulting from any Multiemployer Plan relating to the Transferred Businesses, including, but not limited to, any contribution required to be made to such Multiemployer Plan or any liability to such Multiemployer Plan that occurs as a result of the Distribution;
     (d) any liability resulting from any Dean Welfare Plan or Non-ERISA Benefit Arrangement related to any Business Employee, including, but not limited to, any claims payable on or after the Distribution Date, any liability related to the continuation of coverage of Business Employees under the Dean Welfare Plans, and any premium payments due as of the Distribution Date;
     (e) any liability resulting from any TreeHouse Welfare Plan;
     (f) any liability resulting from any TreeHouse flexible spending account plan or any liability resulting from any Dean flexible spending account plan related to any Business Employee;
     (g) any claims by any Business Employee for (i) weekly indemnity and short-term disability benefits and (ii) long-term disability benefits;
     (h) any liability resulting from any agreement, including, but not limited to, confidentiality and non-compete agreements, entered into between any Dean Party and Business Employees;
     (i) any liability resulting from any agreement entered into between any Dean Party and independent contractors providing services to the Transferred Businesses;
     (j) any liability resulting from any wages, salary, incentive compensation, commissions and bonuses payable to Business Employees;
     (k) any liability resulting from any immigration-related rights, obligations and liabilities related to Business Employees, including, but not limited to, all obligations, liabilities and undertakings of any labor condition applications filed on behalf of H-1B employees;
 
     (l) any claims of discrimination in employment or employment practices, for any reason, including, without limitation, age, gender, race, religion or other legally protected category brought by Business Employees;
     (m) any claims by Business Employees for workers' compensation;
     (n) any liability resulting from any vacation, sick, personal, bereavement or flex day or holiday accrued by Business Employees;
     (o) any liability resulting from any TreeHouse 401(k) Plan, TreeHouse Union 401(k) Plan, TreeHouse Pension Plan or TreeHouse Deferred Compensation Plan; and
     (p) any liability resulting from any Dean 401(k) Plan, Dean Union 401(k) Plan or Dean Pension Plan related to any Business Employee.
All capitalized terms used in the preceding definition not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Specified Employee Liabilities" do not include any liabilities or claims described in paragraphs (a), (b), (h), (j), (k), (l) and (m) above that did not arise out of or in connection with, involve or in any way relate to, directly or indirectly, any Business Employee's employment by any of the Transferred Businesses.
          "" means the Stockholders Agreement dated as of January 27, 2005, among TreeHouse, Dean, the Management Investors and each other Person who becomes a party thereto.
Stockholders Agreement
          "" means, when used with reference to any Person, any corporation or other organization whether incorporated or unincorporated of which at least a majority of the securities or interests having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect at least a majority of the board of directors or others performing similar functions with respect to such corporation or other organization is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or by any one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries. After the Distribution, TreeHouse and Dean shall not be deemed to be under common control for purposes hereof due solely to the fact that TreeHouse and Dean have common stockholders.
Subsidiary
          "" means all federal, state, local or foreign taxes, charges, fees, duties, levies, imposts, rates or assessments, including, but not limited to, income, gross receipts, excise, property, sales, use, license, capital stock, transfer, franchise, payroll, withholding, social security, value added or other taxes, including any interest, penalties or additions to tax attributable thereto, and a "Tax" shall mean any one of such Taxes.
Taxes
          "" means the Tax Sharing Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Dean and TreeHouse.
Tax Sharing Agreement
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(a).
Third Party Claim
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(a).
Third Party Consents
          "" means (a) the Trademark License Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Dean and TreeHouse and (b) the Trademark License Agreement, dated the date hereof, between TreeHouse and Dean, Dean Intellectual Property Services II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and Dean Specialty Intellectual Property Services, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership.
Trademark License Agreements
 
          "" means all United States, state and foreign trademarks, service marks, logos, trade dress and trade names, domain names, websites and all other trade identities whether registered or unregistered, including all goodwill associated with the foregoing, and all registrations and pending applications to register the foregoing.
Trademarks
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(b).
Transferred Actions
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
Transferred Assets
          "" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Transferred Businesses
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(g).
Transferred Intellectual Property
          "" means the Transition Services Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Dean and TreeHouse.
Transition Services Agreement
          "" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
TreeHouse
          "" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
TreeHouse Common Stock
          "" means for each holder of record of Dean Common Stock as of the close of business on the Record Date one share of TreeHouse Common Stock for every five (5) shares of Dean Common Stock outstanding and held of record by such holder at such time.
TreeHouse Distributable Share
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3.
TreeHouse Indemnified Parties
          "" means TreeHouse and its Subsidiaries (including those formed or acquired after the date hereof).
TreeHouse Parties
          "" mean(s) each share of TreeHouse Common Stock.
TreeHouse Share(s)
          Section 1.2 . (a) In this Agreement, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Interpretation
               (i) words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular;
               (ii) reference to any Person includes such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Agreement;
               (iii) reference to any gender includes the other gender;
               (iv) the word "including" means "including but not limited to";
               (v) reference to any Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule means such Article or Section of, or such Exhibit or Schedule to, this Agreement, as the case may be, and references in any Section or definition to any clause means such clause of such Section or definition;
 
               (vi) the words "herein," "hereunder," "hereof," "hereto" and words of similar import shall be deemed references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof;
               (vii) reference to any agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and by this Agreement;
               (viii) reference to any law (including statutes and ordinances) means such law (including all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) as amended, modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect at the time of determining compliance or applicability;
               (ix) relative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including," "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including";
               (x) accounting terms used herein shall have the meanings historically ascribed to them by Dean and its Subsidiaries based upon Dean's internal financial policies and procedures in effect prior to the date of this Agreement;
               (xi) if there is any conflict between the provisions of the body of this Agreement and the Exhibits or Schedules hereto, the provisions of the body of this Agreement shall control unless explicitly stated otherwise in such Exhibit or Schedule;
               (xii) the titles to Articles and headings of Sections contained in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
               (xiii) any portion of this Agreement obligating a Party to take any action or refrain from taking any action, as the case may be, shall mean that such Party shall also be obligated to cause its relevant Subsidiaries to take such action or refrain from taking such action, as the case may be; and
               (xiv) unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to dollar amounts herein shall be in respect of lawful currency of the United States.
          (b) This Agreement was negotiated by the Parties with the benefit of legal representation, and any rule of construction or interpretation otherwise requiring this Agreement to be construed or interpreted against either Party shall not apply to any construction or interpretation hereof.
          Section 2.1 . As more fully set forth in this Article II and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Operating Agreements, prior to the Distribution, Dean shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, convey, assign, transfer, contribute and set over, or cause to be conveyed, assigned, transferred, contributed and set over,
Transfer of Transferred Businesses
 
to the TreeHouse Parties, and Dean and TreeHouse shall cause the TreeHouse Parties to accept and receive, all right, title and interest of Dean and its Subsidiaries in and to the properties, assets and rights of every nature, kind and description, tangible and intangible (including goodwill), whether real, personal or mixed, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses (other than the Retained Assets) (all of such assets being hereinafter referred to as the ""), including the following:
Transferred Assets
          (a) . All assets reflected or disclosed on the unaudited balance sheet of the Transferred Businesses as of March 31, 2005 attached as hereto (the "") that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses, subject to acquisitions, dispositions and adjustments in the operation of the Transferred Businesses from the date of the Balance Sheet through the Distribution Date;
Balance Sheet Assets
Exhibit A
Balance Sheet
          (b) .
Receivables
               (i) All accounts receivable, notes receivable, lease receivables, prepayments (other than prepaid insurance), advances and other receivables arising out of or produced by the Transferred Businesses and owing by any Persons (the ""); and
Receivables
               (ii) All cash payments received after the Distribution Date on account of the Receivables;
          (c) . All supplies, packaging, work-in-process and other inventories that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses;
Inventories
          (d) .
Owned Real Property and Real Estate Leases
               (i) Those certain parcels of land described on (the "") and any and all improvements, fixtures, machinery, equipment and other property located on the premises demised under such Owned Real Property; and
Schedule 2.1(d)(i)
Owned Real Property
               (ii) Those certain real estate leases set forth on (the "") and any and all improvements, fixtures, machinery, equipment and other property located on the premises demised under such Real Estate Leases;
Schedule 2.1(d)(ii)
Real Estate Leases
          (e) . Those certain machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property leases (the "") set forth on ;
Personal Property Leases
Personal Property Leases
Schedule 2.1(e)
          (f) . All fixtures, machinery, installations, equipment, computers, furniture, tools, spare parts, supplies, automobiles, trucks, materials, and other personal property that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses;
Equipment
 
          (g) . (i) All Copyrights, Patents and Trademarks set forth on ; (ii) all Software used primarily in the Transferred Businesses, including the Software set forth on ; (iii) all business and technical information, non-patented inventions, including the patent disclosures set forth on , discoveries, processes, formulations, trade secrets, know-how and technical data that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses made or conceived by employees, consultants or contractors of Dean or its Subsidiaries as to which Dean or its Subsidiaries have rights under any agreement or otherwise relating to the foregoing; (iv) all business and technical information, non-patented inventions, discoveries, processes, formulations, trade secrets, know-how and technical data that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses made or conceived by third parties as to which Dean or its Subsidiaries have rights pursuant to executory agreements with said third parties relating to the foregoing; and (v) all permits, grants, contracts, agreements and licenses running to or from Dean or its Subsidiaries relating to the foregoing; and all rights that are associated with the foregoing (collectively, the "");
Intellectual Property
Schedule 2.1(g)
Schedule 2.1(g)
Schedule 2.1(g)
Transferred Intellectual Property
          (h) . Except for the Contracts listed on (the ""), all of the contracts, agreements, arrangements, leases (other than Real Estate Leases and Personal Property Leases), manufacturers' warranties, memoranda, understandings and offers open for acceptance of any nature, whether written or oral that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses (the ""), including the following:
Contracts
Schedule 2.1(h)
Retained Contracts
Contracts
               (i) all Contracts related to acquisitions or divestitures of assets or stock, except to the extent indicated on ;
Schedule 2.1(h)(i)
               (ii) all supplier Contracts, including those set forth on ;
Schedule 2.1(h)(ii)
               (iii) all Contracts with third parties relating to services provided to, or for the benefit of, the Transferred Businesses, including those set forth on ; and
Schedule 2.1(h)(iii)
               (iv) the Shared Contracts set forth on ; and
Schedule 2.1(h)(iv)
               (v) any Contracts set forth on Schedule 2.1(h)(v).
          (i) . All permits, approvals, licenses, franchises, authorizations or other rights granted by any Governmental Authority held or applied for by Dean and its Subsidiaries and that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses or that relate primarily to the Transferred Assets, and all other consents, grants and other rights that are used primarily for the lawful ownership of the Transferred Assets or the operation of the Transferred Businesses, in each case to the extent legally transferable to TreeHouse;
Permits and Licenses
          (j) . All rights, claims, demands, causes of action, judgments, decrees and rights to indemnity or contribution, whether absolute or contingent, contractual or otherwise, in favor of Dean or any of its Subsidiaries relating primarily to the Transferred Businesses, including the right to sue, recover and retain such recoveries and the right to continue in the name of Dean and its Subsidiaries any pending actions relating to the foregoing, and to recover and retain any damages therefrom (including all manufacturers'
Claims and Indemnities
 
warranties or guarantees related primarily to the Transferred Assets and all manufacturers' or third party service or replacement programs related primarily to the Transferred Assets);
          (k) . All books and records (including all records pertaining to customers, suppliers and personnel), wherever located, that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses;
Books and Records
          (l) . All office supplies, production supplies, spare parts, purchase orders, forms, labels, shipping material, art work, catalogues, sales brochures, operating manuals and advertising and promotional material and all other printed or written material that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses;
Supplies
          (m) . Assets relating to the provision of benefits to present or former employees of the Transferred Businesses (including, without limitation, pension and other post-retirement benefit assets) or relating to the Specified Employee Liabilities; and
Employee Benefit Assets
          (n) . All other assets, tangible or intangible, including all goodwill, that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses, other than e-mail addresses.
Other Assets
          Section 2.2 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the following assets (the "") are not, and shall not be deemed to be, Transferred Assets:
Retained Assets
Retained Assets
          (a) cash and cash equivalents, any cash on hand or in bank accounts, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and similar securities, except for (i) deposits securing bonds, letters of credit, leases and all other obligations that primarily relate to, or are primarily held for use in connection with, the Transferred Businesses, and (ii) bank accounts of TreeHouse (it being understood and agreed that on or prior to the Distribution Date, Dean will sweep, and will be entitled to retain, any and all available cash in the bank accounts of TreeHouse);
          (b) the Retained Contracts;
          (c) any amounts accrued on the books and records of Dean or its Subsidiaries with respect to any Retained Liabilities;
          (d) any right, title or interest in and to any prepaid insurance premiums for the Dean Policies existing immediately prior to the Distribution;
          (e) the trade names "Dean," "Carb Conquest" and "Fieldcrest" (and any derivatives of any such trade name) and associated logos (collectively, the "") and all Trademarks other than the Trademarks set forth on ;
Retained Names
Schedule 2.1(g)
          (f) all Copyrights and Patents other than those set forth on ; and
Schedule 2.1(g)
          (g) all assets of Dean and its Subsidiaries other than the Transferred Assets.
 
          Section 2.3 . In connection with the transactions contemplated by Section 2.1, and except as set forth in Section 2.4, TreeHouse shall, and shall cause the TreeHouse Parties to, assume on a joint and several basis with TreeHouse, and to pay, comply with and discharge all contractual and other Liabilities of Dean or its Subsidiaries arising out of the ownership or use of the Transferred Assets or the operation of the Transferred Businesses, whether due or to become due, including:
Assumption of Liabilities
          (a) all Liabilities of Dean and its Subsidiaries that are reflected, disclosed or reserved for on the Balance Sheet, as such Liabilities may be increased or decreased in the operation of the Transferred Businesses from the date of the Balance Sheet through the Distribution Date;
          (b) all Liabilities of Dean and its Subsidiaries under or related to the Real Estate Leases, the Personal Property Leases and the Contracts, such assumption to occur as (i) assignee if such Real Estate Leases, Personal Property Leases and Contracts are assignable and are assigned or otherwise transferred to TreeHouse, or (ii) subcontractor, sublessee or sublicensee as provided in Section 6.2 if such assignment of such Real Estate Leases, Personal Property Leases and Contracts and/or proceeds thereof is prohibited by law, by the terms thereof or not permitted by the other contracting party;
          (c) all Liabilities of any Dean Party related to the Business Employees (as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) including, without limitation, the Specified Employee Liabilities;
          (d) all Liabilities of Dean and its Subsidiaries related to any and all Actions asserting a violation of any law, rule or regulation arising out of the operations of the Transferred Businesses or the ownership or use of the Transferred Assets, whether before or after the Distribution Date and all Liabilities relating to Assumed Actions;
          (e) all Liabilities for which TreeHouse is liable in accordance with the terms of the Operating Agreements;
          (f) if registration of the TreeHouse Common Stock occurs and trading of the TreeHouse Common Stock commences, up to $10,000,000 of fees and expenses incurred by Dean and TreeHouse in connection with (i) drafting, negotiating and implementing this Agreement, the Stockholders Agreement, the Employment Agreements or any of the Operating Agreements and (ii) planning, analyzing and executing the Distribution; and
          (g) all other Liabilities of Dean and its Subsidiaries arising out of the ownership or use of the Transferred Assets or the operation of the Transferred Businesses, whether existing on the date hereof or arising at any time or from time to time after the date hereof, and whether based on circumstances, events or actions arising heretofore or hereafter, whether or not such Liabilities shall have been disclosed herein, and whether or not reflected on the books and records of Dean and its Subsidiaries or TreeHouse and its Subsidiaries or the Balance Sheet.
          The Liabilities described in this Section 2.3 are referred to in this Agreement collectively as the "."
Assumed Liabilities
 
          Section 2.4 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, neither TreeHouse nor any of the other TreeHouse Parties shall assume any of the following Liabilities of the Dean Parties (the ""):
Retained Liabilities
Retained Liabilities
          (a) Liabilities consisting of indebtedness for borrowed money (other than capital lease obligations) to, or guarantees for any such indebtedness of, Dean, any of its Affiliates (other than TreeHouse) or any third party;
          (b) Liabilities for which Dean is liable in accordance with the terms of the Operating Agreements; and
          (c) Liabilities arising out of the ownership or use of the Retained Assets or the operation of the Retained Business.
          Section 2.5 . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the Operating Agreements, the Stockholders Agreement or as set forth on , and except for all receivables accrued in the ordinary course of business of the Dean Parties and TreeHouse, all Intercompany Agreements and all other intercompany arrangements and course of dealings, whether or not in writing and whether or not binding, in effect immediately prior to the Distribution Date, shall be terminated and be of no further force and effect from and after the Distribution Date.
Termination of Existing Intercompany Agreements
Schedule 2.5
          Section 2.6 . (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, with respect to Liabilities pursuant to, arising under or relating to any Shared Contract, such Liabilities shall be allocated between the Dean Parties, on the one hand, and the TreeHouse Parties on the other hand, as follows:
Shared Contracts
               (i) first, if a Liability is incurred exclusively in respect of a benefit received by one Party, the Party receiving such benefit shall be responsible for such Liability; and
               (ii) second, if a Liability cannot be so allocated under clause (i), such Liability shall be allocated between the Parties based on the relative proportions of total benefit received under the relevant Shared Contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party shall be responsible for any and all Liabilities arising out of or resulting from its breach of the relevant Shared Contract.
          (b) If any of the Dean Parties, on the one hand, or any of the TreeHouse Parties, on the other hand, receive any benefit or payment under any Shared Contract that was intended for the other Party, the Party receiving such benefit or payment will use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver, transfer or otherwise afford such benefit or payment to the other Party.
          (c) With respect to any Shared Contract that is transferred to TreeHouse pursuant to Section 2.1(h)(iv), TreeHouse shall exercise and exploit its rights under such Shared Contracts and take such other action as may be reasonably requested by Dean and at Dean's expense in order to place Dean in the same position it would have been if such Contract had not been transferred as contemplated hereby on the Distribution Date.
 
          (d) With respect to any Shared Contract that is not transferred to TreeHouse pursuant to Section 2.1(h)(iv) and is instead retained by Dean, Dean shall exercise and exploit its rights under such Shared Contracts and take such other action as may be reasonably requested by TreeHouse and at TreeHouse's expense in order to place TreeHouse in the same position it would have been if such Contract had been transferred on the Distribution Date.
          Section 2.7 . On or prior to the Distribution Date (but in any event prior to the Distribution), each of Dean and TreeHouse will, and will cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to, as applicable, take such commercially reasonable action or actions as are necessary to consummate the Corporate Transactions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the Parties agrees that, at any time prior to the Distribution, the Corporate Transactions may be amended, modified or supplemented in any manner determined in good faith to be appropriate or necessary by Dean, including to qualify any of such transactions as a non-taxable transaction under the Code.
Corporate Transactions
          Section 2.8 . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the assumption or retention of any liabilities for Taxes and the transfer, retention or ownership of any Tax assets such as Tax refunds, Tax credits, or Tax attributes shall be governed exclusively by the Tax Sharing Agreement and to the extent there is any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement as to any Tax matter the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement shall control.
Tax Matters
          Section 3.1 . TreeHouse shall issue to Dean the number of TreeHouse Shares required so that the total number of TreeHouse Shares held by Dean immediately prior to the Distribution is equal to the total number of TreeHouse Shares distributable by Dean pursuant to Section 3.2. Dean shall deliver to the Agent one or more stock certificates representing all TreeHouse Shares held by Dean, together with one or more stock power(s) endorsed in blank and, with respect to any uncertificated shares to be distributed pursuant to Section 3.2, shall take such steps as are necessary to permit such shares to be distributed in the manner described in Section 3.2. The Agent will distribute such shares in the manner described in Section 3.2.
Issuance and Delivery of TreeHouse Shares
          Section 3.2 . Dean shall instruct the Agent to distribute the TreeHouse Distributable Share to each holder of record of Dean Common Stock at the close of business on the Record Date. Each distributed TreeHouse Share shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive rights. The shares of TreeHouse Common Stock distributed shall be distributed as uncertificated shares registered in book-entry form through the direct registration system. Except as required by applicable law, no certificates therefor shall be distributed. The Agent shall deliver an account statement to each holder of TreeHouse Common Stock reflecting such holder's ownership interest in shares of TreeHouse Common Stock.
Distribution of TreeHouse Shares
          Section 3.3 . No certificates or scrip representing fractional TreeHouse Shares shall be issued in the Distribution. In lieu of receiving fractional
Treatment of Fractional Shares
 
shares, each holder of Dean Common Stock who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fractional TreeHouse Share pursuant to the Distribution will receive cash for such fractional share. Dean and TreeHouse shall instruct the Agent to determine the number of whole TreeHouse Shares and fractional TreeHouse Shares allocable to each holder of record of Dean Common Stock as of the close of business on Record Date, to aggregate all such fractional shares into whole shares and sell the whole shares obtained thereby in the open market at the then prevailing prices on behalf of holders who would otherwise be entitled to receive fractional share interests, and to distribute to each such holder such holder's ratable share of the total proceeds of such sale after making appropriate deductions of any amounts required for U.S. federal tax withholding purposes and after deducting any taxes attributable to the sale of such fractional share interests.
          Section 3.4 . The Dean Board of Directors shall, in its discretion, establish the Record Date and the Distribution Date and all appropriate procedures in connection with the Distribution. The Board of Directors of Dean shall also have the right to adjust the TreeHouse Distributable Share at any time prior to the Distribution. The consummation of the transactions provided for in this Article III shall only be effected after the Distribution has been declared by the Dean Board of Directors.
Dean Board Action
          Section 3.5 . Dean shall cooperate with TreeHouse in effecting any actions which are reasonably necessary or desirable to be taken by TreeHouse to effectuate the transactions referenced in or contemplated by this Agreement in a manner consistent with the terms hereof, including the preparation and implementation of appropriate plans, agreements and arrangements for employees of the Transferred Businesses and non-employee members of TreeHouse's Board of Directors.
Additional Approvals
          Section 4.1 . In order to effectuate the transactions contemplated by Article II, the Parties shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, prior to or as of the Distribution such deeds, bills of sale, instruments of assumption, instruments of assignment, stock powers, certificates of title and other instruments of assignment, transfer, assumption and conveyance (collectively, the "") as the Parties shall reasonably deem necessary or appropriate to effect such transactions.
Delivery of Instruments of Conveyance
Conveyancing Instruments
          Section 4.2 . Prior to or as of the Distribution, the Parties shall execute and deliver, or shall cause to be executed and delivered, each of the Operating Agreements.
Delivery of Other Agreements
          Section 4.3 . Prior to or as promptly as practicable after the Distribution, Dean shall deliver to TreeHouse all corporate books and records of the TreeHouse Parties and copies of all corporate books and records of the Dean Parties relating to the Transferred Businesses.
Provision of Corporate Records
 
          Section 5.1 . Dean does not represent or warrant in any way (i) as to the value or freedom from encumbrance of, or any other matter concerning, any of the Transferred Assets or Assumed Liabilities or (ii) as to the legal sufficiency to convey title to any of the Transferred Assets on the execution, delivery and filing of the Conveyancing Instruments. ALL TRANSFERRED ASSETS ARE BEING TRANSFERRED ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS" BASIS WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MARKETABILITY, TITLE, VALUE, FREEDOM FROM ENCUMBRANCE OR ANY OTHER REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, and the TreeHouse Parties shall bear the economic and legal risks that any conveyances of the Transferred Assets shall prove to be insufficient or that the TreeHouse Parties' title to any such Transferred Assets shall be other than good and marketable and free of encumbrances. Without limiting the Dean Parties' obligations set forth in any other provision of this Agreement, Dean does not represent or warrant that the obtaining of the consents or approvals, the execution and delivery of any amendatory agreements and the making of the filings and applications contemplated by this Agreement shall satisfy the provisions of all applicable agreements or the requirements of all applicable laws or judgments, and, subject to Section 6.3, the TreeHouse Parties shall bear the economic and legal risk that any necessary consents or approvals are not obtained or that any requirements of law or judgments are not complied with.
No Dean Representations or Warranties
          Section 6.1 . (a) The Parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any Material Governmental Approvals and Consents required by the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Except with respect to Environmental Permits (which are addressed exclusively in Section 6.1(b) below), if and to the extent that the Parties do not obtain any Material Governmental Approval and Consent, unless prohibited by law or the terms of the applicable Material Governmental Approval and Consent, (i) the relevant Dean Party shall continue to be bound thereby, if applicable, and the purported transfer or assignment to any TreeHouse Party shall automatically be deemed deferred until such time as all legal impediments are removed and all necessary approvals or consents have been obtained; (ii) the TreeHouse Parties shall pay, perform and discharge fully all of the obligations of the Dean Parties thereunder from and after the Distribution, or such earlier time as such transfer or assignment would otherwise have taken place, and indemnify the Dean Parties for all Losses arising out of such performance by such TreeHouse Party; and (iii) the Dean Parties shall exercise or exploit their rights and options under all such Material Governmental Approvals and Consents and take such other action as may be reasonably requested by TreeHouse and at TreeHouse's expense in order to place TreeHouse in the same position it would have been if such approval or consent had been obtained on or prior to the Distribution Date. If and when any such Material Governmental Approval and Consent shall be obtained, the applicable Dean Party shall promptly assign or transfer (to the extent permissible) all of its rights and obligations thereunder to the applicable TreeHouse Party
Material Governmental Approvals and Consents; Transition Environmental Matters
 
without payment of further consideration, and the TreeHouse Party shall, without the payment of any further consideration therefor, assume such rights and obligations.
          (b) From and after the Distribution Date, TreeHouse shall have sole responsibility (to the extent allowed by applicable law) for compliance with all terms and conditions of all environmental permits, licenses and other such authorizations held by the Dean Parties in respect of the Transferred Businesses (the ""). During any interim period from and after the Distribution Date through completion of the transfer and/or reissuance to the TreeHouse Parties of any Environmental Permit, Dean shall provide the TreeHouse Parties (to the extent allowed by applicable law) with the benefits of such Environmental Permit and the TreeHouse Parties shall pay, perform, discharge and comply with fully all of the obligations of the Dean Parties thereunder from and after the Distribution Date, and TreeHouse shall indemnify the Dean Parties for all Losses arising out of such performance by such TreeHouse Party. The Dean Parties shall otherwise exercise or exploit their rights and options under all such Environmental Permits only as reasonably directed by TreeHouse and at TreeHouse's expense.
Environmental Permits
          Section 6.2 . If and to the extent that any Dean Party does not obtain any consent, approval or amendment necessary for the transfer or assignment to any TreeHouse Party of any Contract or other rights relating to the Transferred Businesses that would otherwise be transferred or assigned to such TreeHouse Party as contemplated by this Agreement or any other agreement or document contemplated hereby, (i) such Dean Party shall continue to be bound thereby and the purported transfer or assignment to such TreeHouse Party shall automatically be deemed deferred until such time as all legal impediments are removed and all necessary consents have been obtained, and (ii) unless not permitted by the terms thereof or by law, the TreeHouse Parties shall pay, perform and discharge fully all of the obligations of the Dean Parties thereunder from and after the Distribution, or such earlier time as such transfer or assignment would otherwise have taken place, and indemnify the Dean Parties for all Losses arising out of such performance by such TreeHouse Party. The Dean Parties shall, without further consideration therefor, pay and remit to the applicable TreeHouse Party promptly all monies, rights and other considerations received in respect of such performance. The Dean Parties shall exercise or exploit their rights and options under all such Contracts and take such other action as may be reasonably requested by TreeHouse and at TreeHouse's expense in order to place TreeHouse in the same position it would have been if such Contract had been transferred as contemplated hereby on the Distribution Date. If and when any such consent, approval or amendment shall be obtained or such Contract or other right or agreement shall otherwise become transferable or assignable or be able to be novated, the Dean Parties shall promptly assign or transfer and novate (to the extent permissible) all of their rights and obligations thereunder to the applicable TreeHouse Party without payment of further consideration, and the TreeHouse Party shall, without the payment of any further consideration therefor, assume such rights and obligations. To the extent that the transfer or assignment of any Contract or other right (or the proceeds thereof) pursuant to this Section 6.2 is prohibited by law or the terms thereof, this Section 6.2 shall operate to create a subcontract with the applicable TreeHouse Party to perform each relevant Contract or other right, agreement or document at a subcontract price equal to the monies, rights and other consideration received by the Dean Parties with respect to the performance by such TreeHouse Party. For purposes of this , "Contract" shall be deemed to include Real Estate Leases and Personal Property Leases.
Non-Assignable Contracts
Section 6.2
 
          Section 6.3 . (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 2.6 with respect to Shared Contracts and elsewhere in this Agreement, it is expressly understood and agreed to by the Parties that upon the assumption by the TreeHouse Parties of the Assumed Liabilities, the Dean Parties and their respective officers, directors and employees shall be released unconditionally by the TreeHouse Parties from any and all Liabilities, whether joint, several or joint and several, for the discharge, performance or observance of any of the Assumed Liabilities, so that the TreeHouse Parties will be solely responsible for such Assumed Liabilities.
Novation of Assumed Liabilities
          (b) The TreeHouse Parties, at the reasonable request of any Dean Party, shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, or cause to be obtained, any consent, approval, release, substitution or amendment required to novate or assign all obligations under the Assumed Liabilities, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than the TreeHouse Parties.
          (c) If a TreeHouse Party is unable to obtain any such consent, approval, release, substitution or amendment required to novate or assign an obligation under an Assumed Liability, the applicable Dean Party shall continue to be bound by such Assumed Liability and, unless not permitted by law or the terms thereof, the TreeHouse Parties shall, as agent or subcontractor for the Dean Parties, pay, perform and discharge fully all of the obligations or other Liabilities of the Dean Parties thereunder from and after the Distribution Date. The TreeHouse Parties shall indemnify and hold harmless the Dean Parties against any Liabilities arising in connection with such Assumed Liability. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the Dean Parties shall, without further consideration, pay and remit, or cause to be paid or remitted, to the applicable TreeHouse Party promptly the after-tax amount of all money, rights and other consideration received by it in respect of such performance (unless any such consideration is a Retained Asset). If and when any such consent, approval, release, substitution or amendment shall be obtained or such Assumed Liability shall otherwise become assignable or be able to be novated, the applicable Dean Party shall thereafter assign, or cause to be assigned, all of their rights, obligations and other Liabilities thereunder to the applicable TreeHouse Party, without payment of further consideration, and the TreeHouse Parties shall, without the payment of any further consideration, assume such rights and obligations.
          Section 6.4 . (a) In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, each of the Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the Contribution, the Distribution and the other agreements and documents contemplated hereby. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Party shall cooperate with the other Party to execute and deliver, or use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all instruments, including instruments of conveyance, assignment and transfer, and to make all filings with, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person under any permit, license, Contract or other instrument, and to take all such other actions as such Party may reasonably be requested to take by the other Party from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Agreement, in order to confirm the title of the TreeHouse Parties to all of the Transferred Assets, to put the applicable TreeHouse Party in actual possession and operating control thereof and to
Further Assurances
 
permit the applicable TreeHouse Party to exercise all rights with respect thereto and to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Agreement and the other agreements and documents contemplated hereby or thereby, including (i) the obtaining of all necessary actions or non-actions, waivers, consents and approvals from Governmental Authorities and the making of all necessary registrations and filings (including filings with Governmental Authorities) and the taking of all reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain an approval or waiver from, or to avoid an action or proceeding by, any Governmental Authority, (ii) the obtaining of all necessary consents, approvals or waivers from third parties (""), (iii) the defending of any lawsuits or other legal proceedings, whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including seeking to have any stay or temporary restraining order entered by any court or other Governmental Authority vacated or reversed and (iv) the execution and delivery of any additional instruments necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties shall fully cooperate and use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all consents and approvals, to enter into all amendatory agreements and to make all filings and applications that may be required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Third Party Consents
          (b) If, as a result of mistake or oversight, any asset required for the conduct of the Transferred Businesses in all material respects in the manner in which the Transferred Businesses had been conducted immediately prior to the Distribution Date is not transferred to the applicable TreeHouse Party, or any asset required for the conduct of the Retained Business in all material respects in the manner in which the Retained Business had been conducted immediately prior to the Distribution Date is transferred to any TreeHouse Party, Dean and TreeHouse shall negotiate in good faith after the Distribution to determine whether such asset should be transferred to a TreeHouse Party or to a Dean Party, as the case may be, and the terms and conditions upon which such asset shall be made available to a TreeHouse Party or to a Dean Party, as the case may be. Unless expressly provided to the contrary in this Agreement or any Operating Agreement, if, as a result of mistake or oversight, any Liability arising out of or relating to the Transferred Businesses is retained by any Dean Party, or any Liability arising out of or relating to the Retained Business is assumed by any TreeHouse Party, Dean and TreeHouse shall negotiate in good faith after the Distribution to determine whether such Liability should be transferred to a TreeHouse Party or a Dean Party, as the case may be, and/or the terms and conditions upon which any such Liability shall be transferred.
          Section 6.5 . (a) Following the Distribution, the Dean Parties shall be entitled to control all collection actions related to the Retained Business and the TreeHouse Parties shall be entitled to control all collection actions related to the Transferred Businesses (except for accounts receivable arising out of or produced by the ,  and foodservice dressings businesses, for which, in each case, the collection and remittance to TreeHouse will be performed by Dean in accordance with the terms of the Transition Services Agreement), in each case including the determination of what actions are necessary or appropriate and when and how to take any such action.
Collection of Accounts Receivable
MochaMix
SecondNature
          (b) If, after the Distribution, any TreeHouse Party shall receive any remittance from any account debtors with respect to the accounts receivable arising out of the Retained Business
 
or other amounts due any Dean Party in respect of services rendered by any Dean Party after the Distribution, or any Dean Party shall receive any remittance from any account debtors with respect to the accounts receivable arising out of the Transferred Businesses or other amounts due any TreeHouse Party in respect of services rendered by any TreeHouse Party after the Distribution, such Party shall receive and deposit such remittance and hold the same for the benefit of the other Party. The Parties shall reconcile any amounts held under this Section 6.5 on a monthly basis, with the difference between the amounts held by each Party for the benefit of the other being settled by a cash payment to be made as soon as practicable following such reconciliation and, in any event, no later than five business days following the completion of such reconciliation.
          (c) Each Party shall deliver to the other such schedules and other information with respect to accounts receivable as each shall reasonably request from time to time in order to permit such Parties to reconcile their respective records and to monitor the collection of all accounts receivable. Each Party shall afford the other reasonable access to its books and records relating to any accounts receivable.
          Section 6.6 . Except as expressly provided to the contrary in this Agreement or in any Operating Agreement, any amount not paid when due pursuant to this Agreement or any Operating Agreement (and any amounts billed or otherwise invoiced or demanded and properly payable that are not paid within 30 days of the date of such bill, invoice or other demand) (the "Payment Period") shall accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate plus 2%.
Late Payments
          Section 6.7 . Prior to the Distribution:
Registration and Listing
          (a) Dean and TreeHouse shall cooperate with respect to the preparation of the registration statement on Form 10, including such amendments or supplements thereto as may be necessary (together, the ""), to effect the registration of the TreeHouse Common Stock under the Exchange Act. The Registration Statement shall include an information statement to be sent by Dean to its stockholders in connection with the Distribution (the ""). TreeHouse and Dean shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement to become and remain effective under the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable. As soon as practicable, after the Registration Statement becomes effective, Dean shall mail the Information Statement to the holders of Dean Common Stock.
Registration Statement
Information Statement
          (b) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate under state and foreign securities and "Blue Sky" laws in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
          (c) Dean and TreeHouse shall prepare, and TreeHouse shall file and seek to make effective, an application for the listing of the TreeHouse Common Stock, subject to official notice of issuance. Dean shall, to the extent commercially reasonable, give notice of the Record Date in compliance with Rule 10b-17 of the Exchange Act.
 
          (d) The Parties shall cooperate in preparing, filing with the SEC and causing to become effective any registration statements or amendments thereto that are necessary or appropriate in order to effect the transactions contemplated hereby.
          Section 6.8 . (a) As of the Distribution, TreeHouse shall assume and, except as provided in Article VIII, pay all Liabilities that may result from the Assumed Actions and, subject to subsection (c) below, all fees and costs relating to the defense of the Assumed Actions, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. "" means those cases, claims and investigations (i) in which any Dean Party or any Affiliate of a Dean Party, other than TreeHouse and its Subsidiaries, is a defendant or the party against whom the claim or investigation is directed, and (ii) which relates to the Transferred Businesses (other than with respect to Retained Liabilities), including those listed on .
Litigation
Assumed Actions
Schedule 6.8(a)
          (b) On the Distribution Date, the Dean Parties shall transfer the Transferred Actions to TreeHouse, and TreeHouse shall receive and have the benefit of all of the proceeds of such Transferred Actions. "" means those cases and claims (i) in which any Dean Party or any of its Affiliates is a plaintiff or claimant, and (ii) which relates to the Transferred Businesses (other than with respect to the Retained Assets), including those listed on .
Transferred Actions
Schedule 6.8(b)
          (c) On the Distribution Date, TreeHouse shall assume and shall diligently conduct, at its sole cost and expense, the defense of all Assumed Actions; that Dean shall have the right to participate in such proceedings and to be represented by attorneys of its own choosing and at its sole cost and expense. In no event shall TreeHouse settle or compromise any such Assumed Action or Transferred Action without the express prior written consent of Dean unless (i) there is no finding or admission of any violation of any law or any violation of the rights of any Person by any Dean Party, (ii) there is no relief (either monetary or non-monetary) binding upon any Dean Party, and (iii) no Dean Party shall have any Liability with respect to any such settlement or compromise.
provided,
          (d) Each Party agrees that at all times from and after the Distribution, if an Action is commenced by a third party naming both Parties as defendants thereto and with respect to which one Party is a nominal defendant, then the other Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such nominal defendant to be removed from such Action.
          (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties have agreed to handle certain matters in accordance with the agreement set forth on .
Schedule 6.8(e)
          Section 6.9 . Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement or any of the Operating Agreements, prior to December 31, 2005, the Parties, at TreeHouse's expense, shall remove (or, if necessary, on an interim basis cover up) any and all exterior and interior signs and identifiers on the Transferred Assets that refer or pertain to any Dean Party or the Retained Business, or that refer or pertain to TreeHouse or the Transferred Businesses on the Retained Assets. After such period, (i) the TreeHouse Parties shall not use or display any Retained Name, or any variations thereof, or other trademarks, any trade names, logos or identifiers using any of such names or otherwise owned by or licensed to any Dean Party that have not been assigned or licensed to TreeHouse, and (ii) the Dean Parties shall not
Signs; Use of Company Name
 
use or display any trademarks, trade names, logos or identifiers owned by or licensed to TreeHouse that have not been assigned or licensed to a Dean Party (collectively, the ""), without the prior written consent of the other Party; that notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent either Party from using the other's name in public filings with Governmental Authorities, materials intended for distribution to either Party's stockholders or any other communication in any medium that describes the relationship between the Parties, including materials distributed to employees relating to the transition of employee benefit plans; and that TreeHouse shall be permitted to use its inventories of packaging and promotional materials and other supplies existing on the Distribution Date that bear any Retained Name.
Non-Permitted Names
provided,
provided further,
          The obligation of Dean to effect the Distribution is subject to the satisfaction or the waiver by Dean of each of the following conditions:
          Section 7.1 . This Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the declaration of the Distribution, shall have been duly approved by the Board of Directors of Dean in accordance with applicable law and the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of Dean.
Approval by Dean Board of Directors
          Section 7.2 . The Private Letter Ruling shall remain in effect as of the Distribution Date.
IRS Private Letter Ruling
          Section 7.3 . The Parties shall have taken all such action as may be necessary or appropriate under state and foreign securities and "blue sky" laws in connection with the Distribution.
Compliance with State and Foreign Securities and "Blue Sky" Laws
          Section 7.4 . The Parties shall have prepared and TreeHouse shall, to the extent required under applicable law, have filed with the SEC any such documentation and no action letter requests that Dean reasonably determines are necessary or desirable to effectuate the Distribution, and each Party shall have obtained all necessary approvals or no action letters from the SEC.
SEC Filings and Approvals
          Section 7.5 . The Registration Statement shall have been declared effective by the SEC, and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been initiated or, to the knowledge of either of the Parties, threatened by the SEC.
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; No Stop Order
          Section 7.6 . Prior to the Distribution, the Parties shall have prepared and mailed to the holders of Dean Common Stock such information concerning TreeHouse, its business, operations and management, the Distribution and such other matters as Dean shall reasonably determine and as may be required by law.
Dissemination of Information to Dean Stockholders
 
          Section 7.7 . The TreeHouse Common Stock to be distributed in the Distribution shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
Approval of NYSE Listing Application
          Section 7.8 . Each of the Operating Agreements shall have been executed and delivered, and each of such agreements shall be in full force and effect.
Operating Agreements
          Section 7.9 . All Material Governmental Approvals and Consents required to permit the valid consummation of the Distribution shall have been obtained and be in full force and effect.
Consents
          Section 7.10 . No order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Distribution or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including a stop order with respect to the effectiveness of the Registration Statement) shall be in effect and no other event outside the control of Dean shall have occurred or failed to occur that prevents the consummation of the Distribution or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Actions
          Section 7.11 . No other event or developments shall have occurred that, in the judgment of the Dean Board of Directors, would result in the Distribution having a material adverse effect on Dean or its stockholders.
No Material Adverse Effect
          Section 7.12 . Dean or TreeHouse, as the case may be, shall have received any and all legal opinions, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the applicable entity, as such Board of Directors shall determine in good faith to be reasonably necessary for it to authorize the consummation of the Distribution.
Opinions
          Section 7.13 . Such other reasonable and customary actions as Dean shall determine to be reasonably necessary in order to assure the successful completion of the Distribution shall have been taken.
Other Actions
          Section 7.14 . The satisfaction of the foregoing conditions are for the sole benefit of Dean and shall not give rise to or create any duty on the part of Dean or the Dean Board of Directors to waive or not waive any such condition, to effect the Distribution or in any way limit Dean's power of termination set forth in Section 13.11.
Satisfaction of Conditions
          Section 8.1 . Except as may otherwise be expressly provided in this Article VIII, Dean and its Subsidiaries shall not have any Liability whatsoever as a result of the insurance policies and practices of Dean in effect at any time prior to the Distribution Date, including as a result of the level or scope of any such insurance, the creditworthiness of any insurance carrier, the terms and conditions of any policy and the adequacy or timeliness of any notice to any insurance carrier with respect to any claim or potential claim or otherwise.
Insurance Prior to the Distribution Date
 
          Section 8.2 . Dean or one or more of the other Dean Parties shall continue to own all property damage and business interruption, and liability insurance policies and programs, including, without limitation, primary and excess general liability, executive liability, automobile, workers' compensation, property damage and business interruption, crime and surety insurance policies, in effect on or before the Distribution Date (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""). Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Dean Parties shall retain all of their respective rights, benefits and privileges, if any, under the Dean Policies. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to be an attempted assignment of or a change to any part of the ownership of the Dean Policies. With respect to any claim relating to the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets, Dean shall have sole responsibility for claims administration and financial administration of the policies set forth on and such administration shall be governed solely by the terms of Sections 8.5 and 8.6
Ownership of Existing Policies and Programs
Dean Policies
Dean Policy
Schedule 8.3
          Section 8.3 . Through the Distribution Date, Dean will maintain in full force and effect its existing insurance to the extent that it applies to the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses, which insurance policies are set forth on .
Maintenance of Insurance for TreeHouse
Schedule 8.3
          Section 8.4 . Commencing on and as of the Distribution Date, TreeHouse shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining separate property damage and business interruption and liability insurance policies and programs (including, primary and excess general liability, executive liability, automobile, workers' compensation, property damage and business interruption, crime, surety and other similar insurance policies) for activities and claims involving any TreeHouse Party or any of their Affiliates, in each case with commercially reasonable limits and deductibles. Each of the TreeHouse Parties and each of their Affiliates, as appropriate, shall be responsible for all administrative and financial matters relating to insurance policies established and maintained by the TreeHouse Parties and each of their Affiliates for claims relating to any period on or after the Distribution Date involving any TreeHouse Party or any of its Affiliates.
Acquisition and Maintenance of Post-Distribution Insurance by TreeHouse
          Section 8.5 . For property damage and business interruption losses related to the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses which occur prior to the Distribution Date, Dean shall, at TreeHouse's request and to the extent consistent with Dean's past practice, prepare and process claims, including claims that are payable to the Dean Parties in whole or in part because of insurance or reinsurance in support of property damage and business interruption insurance maintained by Dean prior to the Distribution Date. Any amounts received by Dean (net of any costs, expenses, deductibles and other similar payments made by Dean) with respect to any such unresolved claims in existence on the Distribution Date that are settled subsequent to the Distribution Date shall be paid to TreeHouse within 5 business days of receipt thereof by Dean.
Property Damage and Business Interruption Insurance Claims Administration for Pre-Distribution Claims
          Section 8.6 . The Dean Parties shall have the sole right, responsibility and authority for liability and workers compensation claims administration and financial administration of pre-Distribution claims that relate to or affect the Dean Policies or that are uninsured due to the terms
Liability and Workers Compensation Insurance Claims Administration for Post-Distribution Claims
 
of the Dean Policies. Upon notification by a TreeHouse Party or any of its Affiliates of a claim relating to a TreeHouse Party or any of its Affiliates under one or more of the Dean Policies, Dean shall cooperate with TreeHouse in asserting and pursuing coverage and payment for such claim by the appropriate insurance carrier(s). Except as set forth in Section 10.6, Dean shall have sole power and authority to make binding decisions, determinations, commitments and stipulations on its own behalf and on behalf of the TreeHouse Parties and their Affiliates, which decisions, determinations, commitments and stipulations shall be final and conclusive if reasonably made to maximize the overall economic benefit of the Dean Policies. The TreeHouse Parties and their Affiliates shall assume responsibility for, and shall pay to the appropriate insurance carriers or otherwise, any premiums, retrospectively-rated premiums, defense costs, indemnity payments, deductibles, retentions or uninsured costs arising from liability or workers compensation losses, which are uninsured because of coverage terms or conditions of the policies covering such losses, or other charges (collectively, "") whenever arising, which shall become due and payable under the terms and conditions of any applicable Dean Policy in respect of any liabilities, losses, claims, actions or occurrences, whenever arising or becoming known, arising out of the ownership, use or operation of any of the assets, businesses, operations or liabilities of any TreeHouse Party or any of its Affiliates, when the same relate to the period prior to, on or after the Distribution Date. To the extent that the terms of any applicable Dean Policy provide that any Dean Party shall have an obligation to pay or guarantee the payment of any Insurance Charges relating to any TreeHouse Party, Dean shall be entitled to demand that TreeHouse make such payment directly to the Person or entity entitled thereto. In connection with any such demand, Dean shall submit to TreeHouse a copy of any invoice or listing of claims received by Dean pertaining to such Insurance Charges together with appropriate supporting documentation. In the event that TreeHouse fails to pay any such Insurance Charges when due and payable, whether at the request of the Person entitled to payment or upon demand by Dean, any Dean Party may (but shall not be required to) pay such insurance charges for and on behalf of the TreeHouse Parties and, thereafter, the TreeHouse Parties shall forthwith reimburse Dean for such payment within 30 days. Subject to the other provisions of this Article VIII, the retention by Dean of the Dean Policies and the responsibility for claims administration and financial administration of such policies are in no way intended to limit, inhibit or preclude any right of TreeHouse, Dean or any other insured to insurance coverage for any insured claims under the Dean Policies.
Insurance Charges
          Section 8.7 . An insurance carrier that would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto, or, solely by virtue of the provisions of this Article VIII, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto. It is expressly understood and agreed that no insurance carrier or any third party shall be entitled to a benefit (i.e. a benefit they would not be entitled to receive had no Distribution occurred or in the absence of the provisions of this Article VIII) by virtue of the provisions hereof.
Non-Waiver of Rights to Coverage
          Section 8.8 . The provisions of this Article VIII relate solely to matters involving property, damage and business interruption, and liability insurance policies and programs, including, without limitation, primary and excess general liability, executive liability, automobile, workers' compensation, property damage and business interruption, crime and surety insurance policies, and shall not be construed to affect any obligation of or impose any obligation on the Parties with respect to any life, health and accident,
Scope of Affected Policies of Insurance
 
dental or medical or any other insurance policies applicable to any of the officers, directors, employees or other representatives of the Parties or their Affiliates.
          Section 8.9 . With respect to those states in which Dean is required to maintain standby letters of credit relating to workers compensation claims by employees of the Transferred Businesses (the "Letters of Credit"), TreeHouse shall reimburse Dean, on and after the Distribution Date, for all costs and expenses incurred by Dean in respect of the Letters of Credit (including any expenses incurred in arranging for such Letters of Credit). In addition, with respect to those states in which Dean maintains qualified self insurance programs relating to workers compensation claims by employees of the Transferred Businesses, TreeHouse shall reimburse Dean, on and after the Distribution Date, for the allocated portion of costs and expenses incurred by Dean in respect of such self insurance programs and any corresponding collateral (the "Self Insurance Costs"). For each twelve (12) month period (which initial period shall commence on the Distribution Date and end on the one-year anniversary thereof), Dean shall submit an invoice summarizing the costs and expenses by jurisdiction in respect of the Letters of Credit and the Self Insurance Costs to TreeHouse. Payment shall be made by TreeHouse no later than thirty (30) days after the invoice date. In addition, in the event any Letter of Credit is drawn by the beneficiary thereof, TreeHouse shall reimburse Dean for the amount of such drawing within five (5) days of Dean's demand therefor. The obligations of TreeHouse set forth in this Section 8.9 shall survive the Distribution Date indefinitely.
Letter of Credit Reimbursement
          Section 9.1 . If registration of the TreeHouse Common Stock occurs and trading of the TreeHouse Common Stock commences on the NYSE, TreeHouse shall be responsible for, and shall pay, up to $10,000,000 of fees and expenses incurred by Dean and TreeHouse in connection with (i) drafting, negotiating and implementing this Agreement, the Stockholders Agreement, the Employment Agreements or any of the Operating Agreements and (ii) planning, analyzing and executing the Distribution. No later than ninety (90) days after the Distribution Date (or the termination of this Agreement, if earlier), Dean shall notify TreeHouse in writing of the fees and expenses to be reimbursed by TreeHouse pursuant to this Section 9.1, and TreeHouse shall promptly remit payment of such fees and expenses to Dean. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dean shall be responsible for, and shall not be entitled to reimbursement of, its costs incurred in connection with the transfer of production out of the City of Industry South plant located in City of Industry, California to other Dean facilities.
Allocation of Expenses
          Section 10.1 .
Release of Pre-Distribution Claims
          (a) Except as provided in Section 10.1(b), effective as of the Distribution Date, each Party does hereby, on behalf of itself and its respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, successors and assigns and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of either Party (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), remise, release and forever discharge the other Party, its respective
 
Subsidiaries and Affiliates, successors and assigns and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of such Party (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any contract or agreement, by operation of law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Distribution Date, including in connection with the transactions and all other activities to implement the Distribution.
          (b) Nothing contained in Section 10.1(a) shall impair any right of any Person identified in Section 10.1(a) to enforce this Agreement, the Stockholders Agreement, the Employment Agreements, the Operating Agreements, any Shared Contract or the agreement set forth on Schedule 6.8(e). Nothing contained in Section 10.1(a) shall release any Person from:
               (i) any Liability provided in or resulting from any agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding of the Parties that is specified in Section 2.5 or the Schedule thereto as not to terminate as of the Distribution Date, or any other Liability specified in Section 2.5 as not to terminate as of the Distribution Date;
               (ii) any Liability, contingent or otherwise, assumed, transferred, assigned, retained or allocated to a Party, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates in accordance with this Agreement, or any other Liability of any Party, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates under this Agreement;
               (iii) any Liability that any Indemnified Party may have with respect to indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement for claims brought against the Parties or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates by third Persons, which Liability shall be governed by the provisions of this Article X and, if applicable, the appropriate provisions of the Operating Agreements; or
               (iv) any Liability the release of which would result in the release of any Person other than a Person released pursuant to Section 10.1(a).
          (c) Neither Party shall make, nor permit any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to make, any claim or demand, or commence any Action asserting any claim or demand, including any claim of contribution or indemnification, against the other Party, or any other Person released pursuant to Section 10.1(a), with respect to any Liability released pursuant to Section 10.1(a).
          (d) It is the intent of each of the Parties by virtue of the provisions of this Section 10.1 to provide for a full and complete release and discharge of all Liabilities existing or arising from all acts and events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur and all conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Distribution Date, between the Parties (including any contractual agreements or arrangements existing or alleged to exist between the Parties on or before the Distribution Date), except as expressly set forth in Section 10.1(b). At any time, at the reasonable request of either Party, the other Party shall execute and deliver releases reflecting the provisions hereof.
 
          Section 10.2 . Except for matters explicitly covered by the agreement set forth on or as provided in Section 10.5 and except as expressly provided in the Operating Agreements, TreeHouse shall, and shall cause each of the other TreeHouse Parties to, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Dean Parties and each of their Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Expenses or Losses incurred or suffered by one or more of the Dean Indemnified Parties, in connection with, relating to, arising out of or due to, directly or indirectly, any of the following items:
Indemnification by TreeHouse
Schedule 6.8(e)
Dean Indemnified Parties
          (a) any claim that the information included in the Registration Statement or the Information Statement set forth on under the heading "TreeHouse Information" is or was false or misleading with respect to any material fact or omits or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, regardless of whether the occurrence, action or other event giving rise to the applicable matter took place prior to or subsequent to the Distribution Date;
Schedule 10.2(a)
          (b) the Transferred Businesses as conducted by the Dean Parties or their Affiliates or predecessors on or at any time prior to the Distribution Date;
          (c) the Transferred Assets;
          (d) the Assumed Liabilities;
          (e) the Transferred Businesses not being operated in the ordinary course of business after the Distribution as a result of any action or failure to act by any TreeHouse Party, or any of the persons who served (or would have served had such person not retired or his employment been terminated voluntarily or involuntarily) or is serving, in each case, after the Distribution, as a director, officer or employee of any TreeHouse Party;
          (f) the use by any TreeHouse Party after the Distribution of any Retained Name or any variation thereof, or other Trademarks, tradenames, logos or identifiers using any of such names or otherwise owned by or licensed to any Dean Party;
          (g) the breach by any TreeHouse Party of any covenant or agreement set forth in this Agreement, any Operating Agreement or any Conveyancing Instrument, in each case, regardless of when or where the loss, claim, accident, occurrence, event or happening giving rise to the Expense or Loss took place, or whether any such loss, claim, accident, occurrence, event or happening is known or unknown, or reported or unreported; and
          (h) the matters set forth on Schedule 10.2(h).
          Section 10.3 . Except for matters explicitly covered by the agreement set forth on or as provided in Section 10.5 and except as expressly provided in the Operating Agreements, Dean shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless TreeHouse and each of its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Expenses or Losses incurred or suffered by one or more of the TreeHouse Indemnified Parties in connection with, relating to, arising out of or due to, directly or indirectly, any of the following items:
Indemnification by Dean
Schedule 6.8(e)
TreeHouse Indemnified Parties
 
          (a) the business (other than the Transferred Businesses) conducted by the Dean Parties or their Affiliates or predecessors on or at any time prior to the Distribution Date;
          (b) the assets owned by Dean or its Subsidiaries other than the Transferred Assets;
          (c) the Liabilities (including the Retained Liabilities) of the Dean Parties other than the Assumed Liabilities;
          (d) the breach by any Dean Party of any covenant or agreement set forth in this Agreement, any Operating Agreement or any Conveyancing Instrument, in each case, regardless of when or where the loss, claim, accident, occurrence, event or happening giving rise to the Expense or Loss took place, or whether any such loss, claim, accident, occurrence, event or happening is known or unknown, or reported or unreported; and
          (e) any claim that the information included in the Registration Statement or the Information Statement set forth on Schedule 10.2(a) under the heading "Dean Information" is or was false or misleading with respect to any material fact or omits or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, regardless of whether the occurrence, action or other event giving rise to the applicable matter took place prior to or subsequent to the Distribution Date.
          Section 10.4 . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN, THE INDEMNITY OBLIGATION UNDER THIS ARTICLE X SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING ANY INVESTIGATION MADE BY OR ON BEHALF OF ANY INDEMNIFIED PARTY AND SHALL APPLY WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER THE LOSS OR EXPENSE FOR WHICH INDEMNITY IS CLAIMED HEREUNDER IS BASED ON STRICT LIABILITY, ABSOLUTE LIABILITY, ANY OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY OR ARISES AS AN OBLIGATION FOR CONTRIBUTION.
Applicability of and Limitation on Indemnification
          Section 10.5 .
Adjustment of Indemnifiable Losses
          (a) The amount that any Party or any of its Affiliates (an "") is required to pay to any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder (an "") shall be reduced by any insurance proceeds and other amounts actually recovered by or on behalf of such Indemnified Party in reduction of the related Expense or Loss. If an Indemnified Party receives a payment (an "") required by this Agreement from an Indemnifying Party in respect of any Expense or Loss and subsequently actually receives Insurance Proceeds or other amounts in respect of such Expense or Loss, then such Indemnified Party shall pay to the Indemnifying Party a sum equal to the lesser of (1) the after-tax amount of such Insurance Proceeds or other amounts actually received or (2) the net amount of Indemnity Payments actually received previously. The Indemnified Party agrees that the Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to such Indemnified Party under any insurance policy.
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Party
Indemnity Payment
          (b) An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto, or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto.
 
          (c) Indemnity Payments (i) shall be increased to take into account any tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party as a result of the receipt or accrual of Indemnity Payments hereunder, and (ii) shall be reduced to take into account any tax benefit actually realized by the Indemnified Party arising from incurrence or payment by the Indemnified Party of the related Expense or Loss. The parties intend that amounts paid by Dean to or for the benefit of TreeHouse, or by TreeHouse to or for the benefit of Dean, under this Article X shall be treated by the Parties, for all applicable tax purposes, as relating back to the time immediately before the Distribution as an adjustment to capital (i.e., a capital contribution or distribution), and accordingly as being not deductible by the payor and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, not includible in the taxable income of the recipient. The parties shall not take any position inconsistent with such intended tax treatment, except to the extent that a final determination (as defined in Section 1313 of the Code) with respect to the recipient party causes any such payment not to be so treated.
          (d) In the event that an Indemnity Payment shall be denominated in a currency other than United States dollars, the amount of such payment shall be translated into United States dollars using the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency determined in accordance with the following rules:
               (i) with respect to an Expense or a Loss arising from payment by a financial institution under a guarantee, comfort letter, letter of credit, foreign exchange contract or similar instrument, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be determined as of the date on which such financial institution shall have been reimbursed;
               (ii) with respect to an Expense or a Loss covered by insurance, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be the Foreign Exchange Rate employed by the insurance company providing such insurance in settling such Expense or Loss with the Indemnifying Party; and
               (iii) with respect to an Expense or a Loss not covered by clause (i) or (ii) above, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be determined as of the date that notice of the claim with respect to such Expense or Loss shall be given to the Indemnified Party.
          Section 10.6 .
Procedures for Indemnification of Third Party Claims
          (a) If any third party shall make any claim or commence any arbitration proceeding or suit (collectively, a "") against any one or more of the Indemnified Parties with respect to which an Indemnified Party intends to make any claim for indemnification against a TreeHouse Party under Section 10.2 or against a Dean Party under Section 10.3, such Indemnified Party shall promptly give written notice to the Indemnifying Party describing such Third Party Claim in reasonable detail. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnified Party to provide notice in accordance with this Section 10.6(a) shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this Article X, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure to provide notice.
Third Party Claim
          (b) The Indemnifying Party shall have 30 days after receipt of the notice referred to in Section 10.6(a) to notify the Indemnified Party that it elects to conduct and control the defense of
 
such Third Party Claim. If the Indemnifying Party does not give the foregoing notice, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to defend, contest, settle or compromise such Third Party Claim in the exercise of its exclusive discretion subject to the provisions of Section 10.6(c), and the Indemnifying Party shall, upon request from any of the Indemnified Parties, promptly pay to such Indemnified Parties in accordance with the other terms of this Section 10.6(b) the amount of any Expense or Loss resulting from their liability to the third party claimant. If the Indemnifying Party gives the foregoing notice, the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to undertake, conduct and control, through counsel reasonably acceptable to the Indemnified Party, and at its sole expense, the conduct and settlement of such Third Party Claim, and the Indemnified Party shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in connection therewith, provided that (i) the Indemnifying Party shall not thereby permit any lien, encumbrance or other adverse charge to thereafter attach to any asset of any Indemnified Party; (ii) the Indemnifying Party shall not thereby permit any injunction against any Indemnified Party; (iii) the Indemnifying Party shall permit the Indemnified Party and counsel chosen by the Indemnified Party and reasonably acceptable to the Indemnifying Party to monitor such conduct or settlement and shall provide the Indemnified Party and such counsel with such information regarding such Third Party Claim as either of them may reasonably request (which request may be general or specific), but the fees and expenses of such counsel chosen by the Indemnified Party (including allocated costs of in-house counsel and other personnel) shall be borne by the Indemnified Party unless (A) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (B) the named parties to any such Third Party Claim include the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party and in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Indemnified Party representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or likely conflicts of interest between them, in either of which cases the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for such Indemnified Party (including allocated costs of in-house counsel and other personnel) shall be paid by the Indemnifying Party; and (iv) the Indemnifying Party shall agree promptly to reimburse to the extent required under this Article X the Indemnified Party for the full amount of any Expense or Loss resulting from such Third Party Claim and all related expenses incurred by the Indemnified Party. In no event shall the Indemnifying Party, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, settle or compromise any claim or consent to the entry of any judgment that does not include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or the plaintiff to the Indemnified Party of a release from all liability in respect of such claim.
          If the Indemnifying Party shall not have undertaken the conduct and control of the defense of any Third Party Claim as provided above, the Indemnifying Party shall nevertheless be entitled through counsel chosen by the Indemnifying Party and reasonably acceptable to the Indemnified Party to monitor the conduct or settlement of such claim by the Indemnified Party, and the Indemnified Party shall provide the Indemnifying Party and such counsel with such information regarding such Third Party Claim as either of them may reasonably request (which request may be general or specific), but all costs and expenses incurred in connection with such monitoring shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party.
          (c) So long as the Indemnifying Party is contesting any such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall not pay or settle any such Third Party Claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to pay or settle any such Third Party Claim, provided that in such event the Indemnified Party shall waive any right
 
to indemnity therefor by the Indemnifying Party, and no amount in respect thereof shall be claimed as an Expense or a Loss under this Article X.
          If the Indemnified Party determines in its reasonable good faith judgment that the Indemnifying Party is not contesting such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to undertake control of the defense of such Third Party Claim upon five days written notice to the Indemnifying Party and thereafter to defend, contest, settle or compromise such Third Party Claim in the exercise of its exclusive discretion.
          If the Indemnified Party shall have undertaken the conduct and control of the defense of any Third Party Claim as provided above, the Indemnified Party, on not less than 45 days prior written notice to the Indemnifying Party, may make settlement (including payment in full) of such Third Party Claim, and such settlement shall be binding upon the Parties for the purposes hereof, unless within said 45-day period the Indemnifying Party shall have requested the Indemnified Party to contest such Third Party Claim at the expense of the Indemnifying Party. In such event, the Indemnified Party shall promptly comply with such request and the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to direct the defense of such claim or any litigation based thereon subject to all of the conditions of Section 10.6(b). Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10.6(c) to the contrary, if the Indemnified Party, in the good-faith belief that a claim may materially and adversely affect it other than as a result of money damages or other money payments, advises the Indemnifying Party that it has determined to settle a claim, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to do so at its own cost and expense, without any requirement to contest such claim at the request of the Indemnifying Party, but without any right under the provisions of this Article X for indemnification by the Indemnifying Party.
          (d) To the extent that, with respect to any claim governed by Section 9 of the Tax Sharing Agreement, there is any inconsistency between the provisions of such Section 9 and of this Section 10.6, the provisions of Section 9 of the Tax Sharing Agreement shall control with respect to the conduct, defense and settlement of such claim.
          Section 10.7 . Any claim for indemnification on account of an Expense or a Loss made directly by the Indemnified Party against the Indemnifying Party and that does not result from a Third Party Claim shall be asserted by written notice from the Indemnified Party to the Indemnifying Party specifically claiming indemnification hereunder. Such Indemnifying Party shall have a period of 45 days after the receipt of such notice within which to respond thereto. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such 45-day period, such Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have accepted responsibility to make payment and shall have no further right to contest the validity of such claim. If such Indemnifying Party does respond within such 45-day period and rejects such claim in whole or in part, such Indemnified Party shall be free to pursue resolution as provided in Article XI.
Procedures for Indemnification of Direct Claims
          Section 10.8 . If the indemnification provided for in this Article X is unavailable to an Indemnified Party in respect of any Expense or Loss arising out of or related to information contained in the Registration Statement or the Information Statement, then the Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Expense or Loss in such
Contribution
 
proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the TreeHouse Indemnified Parties, on the one hand, or the Dean Indemnified Parties, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Expense or Loss. The relative fault of any TreeHouse Indemnified Party, on the one hand, and of any Dean Indemnified Party, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission of a material fact relates to information supplied by the Transferred Businesses or a TreeHouse Indemnified Party, on the one hand, or by the Retained Business or a Dean Indemnified Party, on the other hand.
          Section 10.9 . The remedies provided in this Article X shall be cumulative and, subject to the provisions of Article XI, shall not preclude assertion by an Indemnified Party of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party.
Remedies Cumulative
          Section 10.10 . All covenants and agreements of the Parties contained in this Agreement relating to indemnification shall survive the Distribution Date indefinitely, unless a specific survival or other applicable period is expressly set forth herein.
Survival
          Section 11.1 .
Escalation and Mediation
          (a) The Parties agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve expeditiously any dispute, controversy or claim between them with respect to the matters covered hereby that may arise from time to time on a mutually acceptable negotiated basis. In furtherance of the foregoing, any Party involved in a dispute, controversy or claim may deliver a notice (an "") demanding an in-person meeting involving representatives of the Parties at a senior level of management of the Parties (or if the Parties agree, of the appropriate strategic business unit or division within such entity). A copy of any such Escalation Notice shall be given to the General Counsel, or like officer or official, of each Party involved in the dispute, controversy or claim (which copy shall state that it is an Escalation Notice pursuant to this Agreement). Any agenda, location or procedures for such discussions or negotiations between the Parties may be established by the Parties from time to time; , , that the Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to meet within 30 days of the Escalation Notice.
Escalation Notice
provided
however
          (b) The Parties may agree to retain a mediator, acceptable to both Parties, to aid the Parties in their discussions and negotiations by informally providing advice to the Parties. Any opinion expressed by the mediator shall be strictly advisory and shall not be binding on the Parties, nor shall any opinion expressed by the mediator be admissible in any action or proceeding. The mediator shall be selected by the Party that did not deliver the applicable Escalation Notice from the list of individuals to be supplied to the Parties by JAMS/Endispute, the American Arbitration Association or such entity mutually agreeable to the Parties. Costs of the mediator shall be borne equally by the Parties involved in the matter, except that each Party shall be responsible for its own expenses.
 
          Section 11.2 . Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the Parties will continue to provide service and honor all other commitments under this Agreement and each Operating Agreement during the course of dispute resolution pursuant to the provisions of this Article XI with respect to all matters not subject to such dispute, controversy or claim.
Continuity of Service and Performance
          Section 11.3 . Any mediation hereunder shall take place in the State of Delaware, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties.
Choice of Forum
          Section 11.4 . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article XI shall prevent any Party from pursuing any and all remedies available to it in connection with a dispute relating to this Agreement, the Stockholders Agreement or any of the Operating Agreements if the Parties are unable to otherwise resolve such dispute in accordance with the foregoing procedures.
Ability to Pursue Other Legal Remedies
          Section 12.1 . (a) At all times from and after the Distribution Date for a period of five years, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request: (i) Dean shall afford to TreeHouse, its Subsidiaries and their authorized accountants, counsel and other designated representatives reasonable access during normal business hours, at TreeHouse's expense and provide copies of, all records, books, contracts, instruments, data, documents and other information (collectively, "") in the possession or under the control of Dean immediately following the Distribution Date that relates to TreeHouse, the Transferred Businesses or the employees of the Transferred Businesses; and (ii) TreeHouse shall afford to Dean, its Subsidiaries and their authorized accountants, counsel and other designated representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to, or, at Dean's expense, provide copies of, all Information in the possession or under the control of TreeHouse immediately following the Distribution Date that relates to Dean, the Retained Business or the employees of Dean; that in the event that either Party determines that any such provision of or access to Information could be commercially detrimental, violate any law or agreement or waive any attorney-client privilege, the Parties shall take all reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence.
Agreement for Exchange of Information
Information
provided,
          (b) Either Party may request Information under Section 12.1(a), (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting party (including under applicable securities or tax laws) by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the requesting party, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative, tax or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims defense, regulatory filings, litigation, tax or other similar requirements, (iii) for use in compensation, benefit or welfare plan administration or other bona fide business purposes or (iv) to comply with its obligations under this Agreement or any Operating Agreement. The rights and obligations under this Article XII are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of Information set forth in this Agreement or any Operating Agreement or Shared Contract.
 
          Section 12.2 . Any Information owned by one Party that is provided to a requesting Party pursuant to Section 12.1 shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing Party. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to grant or confer rights of license or otherwise in any such Information.
Ownership of Information
          Section 12.3 . The Party requesting Information agrees to reimburse the providing Party for the reasonable costs, if any, of creating, gathering and copying such Information, to the extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting Party. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, such costs shall be computed in accordance with the providing Party's standard methodology and procedures.
Compensation for Providing Information
          Section 12.4 . To facilitate the possible exchange of Information pursuant to this Article XII after the Distribution Date, the Parties agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to retain all Information in their respective possession or control on the Distribution Date in accordance with the policies and procedures of Dean as in effect on the Distribution Date or such other procedures as may reasonably be adopted by the applicable Party after the Distribution Date. No party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to destroy, any Information that the other Party may have the right to obtain pursuant to this Agreement prior to the fifth anniversary of the date hereof, and thereafter without first using commercially reasonable efforts to notify the other Party of the proposed destruction and giving the other Party the opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction; that in the case of any Information relating to taxes, the parties' obligations with respect to record retention will be as set forth in Section 10.02(b) of the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Retention of Records
provided,
          Section 12.5 . No Party shall have any liability to the other Party (i) if any Information exchanged or provided pursuant to this Agreement that is an estimate or forecast, or that is based on an estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct by the Party providing such Information, or (ii) if any Information is destroyed after commercially reasonable efforts to comply with the provisions of Section 12.4.
Limitation of Liability
          Section 12.6 . At all times from and after the Distribution Date, each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to the other Party (without cost (other than reimbursement of actual out-of-pocket expenses) to, and upon prior written request of, the other Party) its directors, officers, employees and agents as witnesses to the extent that the same may reasonably be required by the other Party in connection with any Action (except in the case of any Action by one Party against the other Party) in which the requesting Party may from time to time be involved with respect to the Transferred Businesses, the Retained Business or any transactions contemplated hereby.
Production of Witnesses
          Section 12.7 . From and after the Distribution Date, each of Dean and TreeHouse shall hold, and shall cause their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors and other representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that applies to Dean's confidential and proprietary information pursuant to policies in effect as of the Distribution Date or such other procedures as may reasonably be adopted by the applicable Party after the Distribution Date, all non-public information
Confidentiality
 
concerning or belonging to the other Party or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates obtained by it prior to the Distribution Date, accessed by it pursuant to Section 12.1, or furnished to it by the other Party or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement or any agreement or document contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, any trade secrets, technology, know-how and other non-public, proprietary intellectual property rights licensed pursuant to the Trademark License Agreements and shall not release or disclose such information to any other Person, except their representatives, who shall be bound by the provisions of this Section 12.7; , , that Dean and TreeHouse and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors and other representatives may disclose such information if, and only to the extent that, (i) a disclosure of such information is compelled by judicial or administrative process or, in the opinion of such Party's counsel, by other requirements of law (in which case the disclosing Party will provide, to the extent practicable under the circumstances, advance written notice to the other Party of its intent to make such disclosure), or (ii) such Party can show that such information (A) is published or is or has otherwise become available to the general public as part of the public domain without breach of this Agreement; (B) has been furnished or made known to the recipient without any obligation to keep it confidential by a third party under circumstances which are not known to the recipient to involve a breach of the third party's obligations to a Party hereto; (C) was developed independently of information furnished to the recipient under this Agreement; or (D) in the case of information furnished after the Distribution Date, was not known to the recipient at the time of the Distribution but became known to the recipient prior to the time of receipt thereof from the other Party.
provided
however
          Section 12.8 . (a) Each of Dean and TreeHouse agrees to maintain, preserve and assert all privileges, including, without limitation, privileges arising under or relating to the attorney-client relationship (which shall include without limitation the attorney-client and work product privileges), not heretofore waived, that relate to the Transferred Businesses and the Transferred Assets for any period prior to the Distribution Date ("" or ""). Each Party acknowledges and agrees that any costs associated with asserting any Privilege shall be borne by the Party requesting that such privilege be asserted. Each Party agrees that it shall not waive any Privilege that could be asserted under applicable law without the prior written consent of the other Party. The rights and obligations created by this Section 12.8 shall apply to all information relating to the Transferred Businesses as to which, but for the Distribution, either Party would have been entitled to assert or did assert the protection of a Privilege (""), including without limitation, (i) any and all information generated prior to the Distribution Date but which, after the Distribution, is in the possession of either Party; and (ii) all information generated, received or arising after the Distribution Date that refers to or relates to Privileged Information generated, received or arising prior to the Distribution Date.
Privileged Matters
Privilege
Privileges
Privileged Information
          (b) Upon receipt by either Party of any subpoena, discovery or other request that may call for the production or disclosure of Privileged Information or if either Party obtains knowledge that any current or former employee of Dean or TreeHouse has received any subpoena, discovery or other request that may call for the production or disclosure of Privileged Information, such Party shall notify promptly the other Party of the existence of the request and shall provide the other Party a reasonable opportunity to review the information and to assert any rights it may have under this Section 12.8 or otherwise to prevent the production or disclosure of Privileged Information. Each Party agrees that it will not produce or disclose any information
 
that may be covered by a Privilege under this Section 12.8 unless (i) the other Party has provided its written consent to such production or disclosure (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), or (ii) a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, nonappealable order finding that the information is not entitled to protection under any applicable Privilege.
          (c) Dean's transfer of books and records and other information to TreeHouse, and Dean's agreement to permit TreeHouse to possess Privileged Information existing or generated prior to the Distribution Date, are made in reliance on TreeHouse's agreement, as set forth in Sections 12.7 and 12.8, to maintain the confidentiality of Privileged Information and to assert and maintain all applicable Privileges. The access to information being granted pursuant to Section 12.1, the agreement to provide witnesses and individuals pursuant to Section 12.6 and the transfer of Privileged Information to TreeHouse pursuant to this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of any Privilege that has been or may be asserted under this Section 12.8 or otherwise. Nothing in this Agreement shall operate to reduce, minimize or condition the rights granted to Dean in, or the obligations imposed upon TreeHouse by, this Section 12.8.
          Section 13.1 . This Agreement and the Operating Agreements, including the Schedules and Exhibits referred to herein and therein and the documents delivered pursuant hereto and thereto, constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein, and supersede all prior agreements, negotiations, discussions, understandings, writings and commitments between the Parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
          Section 13.2 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America applicable therein, as though all acts and omissions related hereto occurred in Delaware.
Choice of Law and Forum
          Section 13.3 . This Agreement shall not be amended, modified or supplemented except by a written instrument signed by an authorized representative of each of the Parties.
Amendment
          Section 13.4 . Any term or provision of this Agreement may be waived, or the time for its performance may be extended, by the Party or Parties entitled to the benefit thereof. Any such waiver shall be validly and sufficiently given for the purposes of this Agreement if, as to any Party, it is in writing signed by an authorized representative of such Party. The failure of any Party to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of such provision, or in any way to affect the validity of this Agreement or any part hereof or the right of any Party thereafter to enforce each and every such provision. No waiver of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.
Waiver
          Section 13.5 . Wherever possible, each provision hereof shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but in case any
Partial Invalidity
 
one or more of the provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision or provisions shall be ineffective to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remainder of such provision or provisions or any other provisions hereof, unless such a construction would be unreasonable.
          Section 13.6 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original instrument, but all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become binding when one or more counterparts have been signed by and delivered to each of the Parties.
Execution in Counterparts
          Section 13.7 . This Agreement and each Operating Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and thereto, respectively, and their successors and permitted assigns; , , that the rights of either Party under this Agreement and each Operating Agreement shall not be assignable by such Party without the prior written consent of the other Party. The successors and permitted assigns hereunder shall include, without limitation, any permitted assignee as well as the successors in interest to such permitted assignee (whether by merger, liquidation (including successive mergers or liquidations) or otherwise).
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
          Section 13.8 . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Article X or in any Operating Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement and each Operating Agreement are solely for the benefit of the Parties and their respective Affiliates, successors and permitted assigns and shall not confer upon any third Person any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement or any Operating Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement or any Operating Agreement shall obligate Dean or TreeHouse to assist any TreeHouse employee to enforce any rights such employee may have with respect to any of the employee benefits described in this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries
          Section 13.9 . All notices and other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) a transmitter's confirmation of a receipt of a facsimile transmission (but only if followed by confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier the following business day or if delivered by hand the following business day), (b) confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier or when delivered by hand or (c) the expiration of five business days after the date mailed by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
          If to Dean, to:
Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201 Telephone: (214) 303-3413 Fax: (214) 303-3853 Attention: General Counsel
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute effective notice) to:
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 2445 M Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20037 Telephone: (202) 663-6000 Fax: (202) 663-6363 Attention: Erika L. Robinson
          If to TreeHouse, to:
TreeHouse Foods, Inc. 857-897 School Place P.O. Box 19057 Green Bay, Wisconsin 54307 Telephone: (920) 497-7131 Fax: (920) 497-4604 Attention: General Counsel
with a copy (which shall not constitute effective notice) to:
Winston and Strawn LLP 35 W. Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60601 Telephone: (312) 558-5600 Fax: (312) 558-5700 Attention: Bruce A. Toth
Either party may, by written notice to the other parties, change the address or the party to which any notice, request, instruction or other documents is to be delivered.
          Section 13.10 . Each Party shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any Subsidiary or Affiliate of such Party.
Performance
          Section 13.11 . Notwithstanding any provisions hereof, this Agreement may be terminated and the Distribution abandoned at any time prior to the Distribution Date by and in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors of Dean without the prior the approval of any Person but subject to the rights of the parties under the Stockholders Agreement. In the event of such termination, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and no Person shall have any liability to any other Person by reason of this Agreement.
Termination
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their authorized representatives as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     THIS TAX SHARING AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") dated as of June 27, 2005 by and among Dean Foods Company, a Delaware corporation ("Distributing"), TreeHouse Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of Distributing ("Controlled"), and each Controlled Affiliate (as defined below), is entered into in connection with the Distribution (as defined below).
     WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, Distributing and its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries are members of an Affiliated Group (as defined below) of which Distributing is the common parent;
     WHEREAS, as set forth in the Distribution Agreement by and between Distributing and Controlled, dated as of June 27, 2005 (the "Distribution Agreement"), and subject to the terms and conditions thereof, Distributing will transfer and assign, or cause to be transferred and assigned, to Controlled substantially all the business, operations, assets and liabilities related to the Transferred Businesses (as defined below);
     WHEREAS, as set forth in the Distribution Agreement, and subject to the terms and conditions thereof, Distributing will distribute on a pro rata basis to the holders of Distributing's common stock all of the outstanding shares of Controlled common stock then owned by Distributing (together with the preferred share purchase rights associated therewith) (the "Distribution");
     WHEREAS, the Distribution is intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution to Distributing and its shareholders under section 355 of the Code (as defined below); and
     WHEREAS, in contemplation of the Distribution, pursuant to which Controlled (and its direct and indirect subsidiaries) will cease to be members of Distributing's Affiliated Group (as defined below), the Parties hereto have determined to enter into this Agreement, setting forth their agreement with respect to certain tax matters.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the Parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions.
     As used in this Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of the terms defined):
     1.01 "Affiliated Group" means an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of section 1504(a)(1) of the Code that files a Consolidated Return.
     1.02 "After-Tax Amount" means any additional amount necessary to reflect the Income Tax consequences of the receipt or accrual of any payment required to be made under
 
this Agreement (including upon the receipt of payments required to make the payment of an After-Tax Amount), determined on a hypothetical basis by assuming that the applicable Party is subject to the highest applicable statutory corporate Income Tax rate for the relevant jurisdiction (or, in the case of an item that affects more than one jurisdiction, the highest applicable statutory corporate Income Tax rates) for the relevant taxable period (or portion thereof), that all state and local Income Taxes are deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and that all Income Taxes in the form of interest are deductible for income tax purposes.
     1.03 "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
     1.04 "Bay Valley" means Bay Valley Foods, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a Controlled Affiliate.
     1.05 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and shall include corresponding provisions of any subsequently enacted federal Tax law.
     1.06 "Combined Return" means any Tax Return, other than with respect to United States federal Income Taxes, filed on a consolidated, combined (including nexus combination, worldwide combination, domestic combination, line of business combination or any other form of combination) or unitary basis wherein Controlled or one or more Controlled Affiliates are included in the filing of such Tax Return for any taxable period or portion thereof with Distributing or one or more Distributing Affiliates.
     1.07 "Consolidated Return" means any Tax Return with respect to United States federal Income Taxes filed on a consolidated basis wherein Controlled or one or more Controlled Affiliates are included in the filing of such Tax Return for any taxable period or portion thereof with Distributing or one or more Distributing Affiliates.
     1.08 "Controlled" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
     1.09 "Controlled Affiliate" means any corporation or other entity directly or indirectly "controlled" by Controlled at the time in question, where "control" means the ownership of 50 percent or more of the ownership interests of such corporation or other entity (by vote or value) or the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such corporation or other entity.
     1.10 "Controlled Equity Interest" means (a) stock or any other equity interest in Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate (including any instrument, obligation or other agreement or arrangement that is treated as stock or as an equity interest for federal Income Tax purposes), or (b) any option, warrant or other right to acquire any stock or other equity interest described in clause (a).
     1.11 "Controlled Group" means the Affiliated Group, or similar group of entities as defined under corresponding provisions of the laws of other jurisdictions, of which Controlled will be the common parent corporation immediately after the Distribution, and including any corporation or other entity which may become a member of such group from time to time.
     1.12 "Controlled Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02.
 
     1.13 "Controlled Representation Letter" means the representation letter provided by Controlled to Distributing's outside tax counsel in connection with the Tax Opinion substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
     1.14 "Controlled Representative" means (i) each of Sam K. Reed, David B. Vermylen, E. Nichol McCully, Thomas E. O'Neill, Harry J. Walsh and Jo Osborn; (ii) each of the directors of Controlled other than Gregg Engles; and (iii) any Person acting with the implicit or explicit permission (within the meaning of section 1.355-7 of the Treasury Regulations) of any of the individuals listed or referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii).
     1.15 "Controlled Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
     1.16 "Deciding Firms" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03.
     1.17 "DIPS LP" means Dips Limited Partner II, a Delaware statutory trust.
     1.18 "Distributing" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
     1.19 "Distributing Affiliate" means any corporation or other entity directly or indirectly "controlled" by Distributing where "control" means the ownership of 50 percent or more of the ownership interests of such corporation or other entity (by vote or value) or the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such corporation or other entity, but at all times excluding Controlled and any Controlled Affiliate.
     1.20 "Distributing Group" means the Affiliated Group, or similar group of entities as defined under corresponding provisions of the laws of other jurisdictions, of which Distributing is the common parent corporation, and any corporation or other entity which may be, may have been or may become a member of such group from time to time, but excluding any member of the Controlled Group.
     1.21 "Distributing Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
     1.22 "Distributing Representation Letter" means the representation letter provided by Distributing to Distributing's outside tax counsel in connection with the Tax Opinion substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
     1.23 "Distributing Representative" means (i) any current or former officer or director of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate; (ii) any controlling shareholder (within the meaning of section 1.355-7(h)(3) of the Treasury Regulations) of Distributing; and (iii) any Person acting with the implicit or explicit permission (within the meaning of section 1.355-7 of the Treasury Regulations) of any of the foregoing; provided, that a Distributing Representative shall not include (a) any Person who is treated as a Controlled Representative under the definition of Controlled Representative, or (b) with respect to actions taken on or after June 24, 2005, any Person who became an employee of Controlled or a Controlled Affiliate following the Restructuring Transactions that occurred on June 24, 2005 and who will serve as a director or officer of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate following the Distribution.
 
     1.24 "Distributing Tax Package" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05.
     1.25 "Distributing Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02.
     1.26 "Distribution" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     1.27 "Distribution Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     1.28 "Distribution Date" means the date on which the Distribution is effected.
     1.29 "Distribution Taxes" means any Taxes imposed on, or increase in Taxes incurred by, Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate, and any Taxes of a Distributing shareholder that are required to be paid or reimbursed by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate (without regard to whether such Taxes are offset or reduced by any Tax Asset, Tax Item, or otherwise) resulting from or arising in connection with (i) the failure of the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the Code or corresponding provisions of the laws of any other jurisdictions, or (ii) the failure of any Restructuring Transaction that is intended to qualify as a tax-free liquidation under section 332 of the Code, a transfer of property under section 351 of the Code, a reorganization under section 368(a) of the Code and/or a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the Code to so qualify, including in the case of each of clause (i) and (ii) any Tax resulting from the application of section 355(d), section 355(e) or section 355(f) of the Code to any Restructuring Transaction or the Distribution.
     1.30 "Expenses" means any and all expenses incurred in connection with investigating, defending or asserting any claim, action, suit or proceeding incident to any matter indemnified against hereunder (including court filing fees, court costs, arbitration fees or costs, witness fees, and reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel, investigators, expert witnesses, consultants, accountants and other professionals).
     1.31 "Filing Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02.
     1.32 "Final Determination" means the final resolution of liability for any Tax for any taxable period, by or as a result of the first to occur of (i) a decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction that is not subject to further judicial review (by appeal or otherwise) and has become final; (ii) a final settlement with the IRS, a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Code sections 7121 or 7122, or a comparable agreement under the laws of other jurisdictions, which resolves the entire Tax liability for any taxable period; or (iii) any other final disposition, including by reason of the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or any other event that the Parties agree in writing is a final and irrevocable determination of the liability at issue.
     1.33 "Form 10" means the Form 10 filed by TreeHouse Foods, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 14, 2005.
     1.34 "Historic Business" means the Mocha Mix/Second Nature business.
 
     1.35 "Income Tax" means any income, franchise or similar Tax imposed on, measured by or calculated with respect to net income or net profits.
     1.36 "Income Tax Return" means a Tax Return relating to or filed in connection with any Income Tax.
     1.37 "Independent Firm" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03.
     1.38 "Initial Ruling" means the private letter ruling dated April 29, 2005, issued by the IRS with respect to the Restructuring Transactions and the Distribution.
     1.39 "Initial Ruling Documents" means the request for the Initial Ruling filed with the IRS on or about February 11, 2005, together with all supplemental filings, additional information and other materials subsequently submitted in connection therewith on behalf of Distributing, its subsidiaries and its shareholders to the IRS, and all appendices and exhibits thereto. The Initial Ruling Documents shall include the letter dated June 24, 2005 from Stephen Wegener of Deloitte Tax LLP to Wayne Murray at the IRS regarding the Initial Ruling.
     1.40 "IRS" means the United States Internal Revenue Service or any successor thereto, including its agents, representatives, and attorneys.
     1.41 "Losses" means any and all losses, costs, obligations, liabilities, settlement payments, awards, judgments, fines, penalties, damages, fees, expenses, deficiencies, claims or other charges, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown (including, without limitation, the costs and expenses of any and all Tax Proceedings, threatened Tax Proceedings, demands, assessments, judgments, settlements and compromises relating thereto and attorneys' fees and any and all expenses whatsoever reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any such matters).
     1.42 "LPS I" means Dean Specialty Intellectual Property Services, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and a Controlled Affiliate.
     1.43 "Non-Income Tax" means any Tax other than an Income Tax.
     1.44 "Non-Income Tax Return" means any Tax Return other than an Income Tax Return.
     1.45 "Owed Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04.
     1.46 "Owing Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04.
     1.47 "Party" means Distributing, Controlled or a Controlled Affiliate.
     1.48 "Payment Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(e).
 
     1.49 "Person" means any natural person, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, proprietorship, trust, association, union, governmental authority or other entity, enterprise, authority or organization.
     1.50 "Pickle" means Dean Pickle and Specialty Products Company, a Wisconsin corporation.
     1.51 "Post-Distribution Period" means any taxable period (or the portion of any Straddle Period) beginning after the Distribution Date.
     1.52 "Pre-Distribution Period" means any taxable period (or the portion of any Straddle Period) ending on or before the Distribution Date.
     1.53 "Qualifying Compensatory Transfers" means issuances of Controlled stock to Persons in connection with the performance of services that satisfy the requirements of Safe Harbor VIII set forth in section 1.355-7(d)(8) of the Treasury Regulations and grants of stock options and other forms of equity compensation under Controlled's 2005 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan that, if exercised or vested, respectively, would result in issuances of Controlled stock that satisfy the requirements of Safe Harbor VIII set forth in section 1.355-7(d)(8) of the Treasury Regulations
     1.54 "Restricted Actions" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05(a).
     1.55 "Restructuring Transactions" means the transactions undertaken prior to and in connection with the Distribution to transfer the assets and liabilities of the Transferred Businesses to Controlled and its subsidiaries and to effect the Distribution, as described more fully in the Initial Ruling and the Initial Ruling Documents.
     1.56 "Retained Assets" shall have the meaning set forth in the Distribution Agreement.
     1.57 "Retained Business" shall have the meaning set forth in the Distribution Agreement.
     1.58 "Ruling Documents" means the Initial Ruling Documents and any Supplemental Ruling Documents.
     1.59 "Rulings" means the Initial Ruling and any Supplemental Rulings.
     1.60 "Sole Responsibility Item" means any Tax Item for which the non-Filing Party has the entire economic liability under this Agreement.
     1.61 "Specialty Foods Holding" means Specialty Foods Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and a Controlled Affiliate.
     1.62 "Straddle Period" means any taxable period that begins before and ends after the Distribution Date.
 
     1.63 "Supplemental Ruling" means (1) any ruling issued or to be issued by the IRS that relates to the Distribution other than the Initial Ruling, and (2) any similar ruling issued by any other Taxing Authority addressing the application of a provision of the Tax laws of another jurisdiction to the Distribution.
     1.64 "Supplemental Ruling Documents" means (i) any request for a Supplemental Ruling and any materials, appendices, exhibits or additional information submitted or filed in connection therewith, and (2) any similar filings submitted to any other Taxing Authority in connection with the Distribution.
     1.65 "Taxes" means all federal, state, local or foreign taxes, charges, fees, duties, levies, imposts or other assessments, including, but not limited to, income, gross receipts, excise, property, sales, use, license, capital stock, transfer, franchise, payroll, withholding, social security, value added or other taxes, including any interest, penalties or additions to tax attributable thereto, and a "Tax" shall mean any one of such Taxes.
     1.66 "Tax Asset" means any Tax Item that has accrued for Tax purposes, but has not been used during the taxable period in which it has accrued, and that could reduce a Tax in another taxable period, including a net operating loss, net capital loss, investment tax credit, foreign tax credit, charitable deduction or credit related to alternative minimum tax or any other Tax credit.
     1.67 "Tax Benefit" means a reduction in the Tax liability (or increase in refund or credit) realized or received by a taxpayer (or of the Affiliated Group of which it is a member) for any taxable period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Benefit shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a taxable period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the Affiliated Group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer in the current period and all prior periods, is less than it would have been had such Tax liability been determined without regard to such Tax Item.
     1.68 "Tax Detriment" means an increase in the Tax liability (or reduction in refund or credit) realized or received by a taxpayer (or of the Affiliated Group of which it is a member) for any taxable period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Detriment shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a taxable period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the Affiliated Group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer in the current period and all prior periods, is more than it would have been had such Tax liability been determined without regard to such Tax Item.
     1.69 "Tax Item" means any item of income, gain, loss, deduction, expense or credit, or any other attribute or amount that may have the effect of increasing or decreasing any Tax.
     1.70 "Tax Opinion" means the opinion rendered to Distributing and Controlled by Distributing's outside tax counsel with respect to the federal income tax consequences of the Distribution.
 
     1.71 "Tax Proceeding" means any audit, examination, investigation, action, suit, claim, assessment or other administrative or judicial proceeding relating to Taxes.
     1.72 "Tax Return" means any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related or supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) required to be supplied to, or filed with, a Taxing Authority in connection with the determination, assessment or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations or administrative requirements relating to any Tax.
     1.73 "Taxing Authority" means any governmental authority or any subdivision, agency, commission or authority thereof or any quasi-governmental or private body having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection or imposition of any Tax (including the IRS).
     1.74 "Transferred Assets" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Distribution Agreement.
     1.75 "Transferred Businesses" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Distribution Agreement.
     1.76 "Transferred Business Records" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.02(b).
     1.77 "Unqualified Opinion" means an unqualified opinion (except for reliance on reasonable assumptions and representations) of a law firm.
Section 2. Preparation and Filing of Tax Returns.
     2.01 . Distributing shall have sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of:
Distributing's Responsibility
               (a) all Consolidated Returns and Combined Returns;
               (b) all Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to Distributing and/or any Distributing Affiliate for any period;
               (c) all Income Tax Returns of LPS I for any taxable period ending on or before the Distribution Date (whether due on, before, or after the Distribution Date); and
               (d) all Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to Controlled and/or any Controlled Affiliate that are due (taking into account any valid extensions of the due date) on or before the Distribution Date.
     2.02 . Controlled shall have sole and exclusive responsibility for the preparation and filing of:
Controlled's Responsibility
               (a) except as provided in Section 2.01(c), all Tax Returns due (taking into account any valid extensions of the due date) after the Distribution Date which are required to be
 
filed by or with respect to, and which relate exclusively to Controlled, Specialty Foods Holding and/or LPS I for any taxable period beginning before the Distribution Date; and
               (b) all Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to Controlled and/or any Controlled Affiliate for any taxable period beginning after the Distribution Date.
     2.03 . Subject to the other applicable provisions of this Agreement, Controlled hereby irrevocably designates, and agrees to cause each Controlled Affiliate to so designate, Distributing as its sole and exclusive agent and attorney-in-fact to take such actions (including execution of documents) as Distributing, in its sole discretion, may deem appropriate in any and all matters (including Tax Proceedings) relating to any Consolidated Return or Combined Return. Without limiting the foregoing, Distributing, Controlled, the members of the Distributing Group and the members of the Controlled Group shall file any and all consents, elections or other documents and take any other actions necessary or appropriate to file any Consolidated Return or Combined Return.
Agent
     2.04 .
Manner of Tax Return Preparation
               (a) All Tax Returns shall be filed on a timely basis (taking into account applicable extensions) by the Party responsible for filing such returns under this Agreement.
               (b) Tax Returns prepared by Distributing under Section 2.01 that relate to Taxes for which Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate is liable under Section 3 shall be prepared in a manner consistent with past practice, unless otherwise required by applicable law. Subject to the requirements of the immediately preceding sentence and Section 4.02(c), Distributing shall have the exclusive right with respect to any Tax Return for which it has filing responsibility under Section 2.01 to determine the manner in which such Tax Return shall be prepared and filed, including the elections, method of accounting, positions, conventions and principles of taxation to be used and the manner in which any Tax Item shall be reported. Distributing shall also have the exclusive right with respect to any Tax Return for which it has filing responsibility under Section 2.01 to determine (1) whether to retain outside firms to prepare or review such Tax Returns, (2) whether any extensions shall be requested, (3) whether any amended Tax Returns shall be filed, (4) whether any claims for refund shall be made, and (5) whether any refunds shall be paid by way of refund or credited against any liability for Tax; provided, that upon the request of Controlled, Distributing will use reasonable efforts to file for and obtain any material Tax refund to which Controlled is entitled pursuant to this Agreement if (x) Distributing concludes, in its discretion, that filing for such Tax refund will not adversely affect Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate, (y) the refund claim relates solely to Taxes for which Controlled is responsible under this Agreement, and (z) Controlled agrees to and does reimburse Distributing for all expenses incurred in connection with the filing and prosecution of such Tax refund claim.
               (c) Distributing shall determine, in a manner consistent with past practice, whether to file any Tax Return for any taxable period beginning before the Distribution Date on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis if the filing of a consolidated, combined or unitary Tax Return for such period is elective under applicable law. If there is no applicable past practice, Distributing shall determine in its discretion whether to file such Tax Return on a consolidated, combined, or unitary basis; provided, that Distributing shall not file such a Tax Return on a
 
consolidated, combined or unitary basis if the Tax Return relates exclusively to Controlled and/or a Controlled Affiliate and the election to file on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis would be binding on Controlled and/or a Controlled Affiliate or otherwise could adversely affect Controlled or a Controlled Affiliate for taxable periods beginning after the Distribution Date without the prior written consent of Controlled, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
               (d) Tax Returns prepared by Controlled under Section 2.02 that relate to Taxes for which Distributing is liable under Section 3 shall be prepared in a manner consistent with past practice and the reporting of Tax Items on Consolidated Returns or Combined Returns filed by Distributing, unless otherwise required by applicable law. Neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall take any position on any Tax Return filed after the Distribution Date or in any Tax Proceeding (i) that is inconsistent with a position taken on a Tax Return filed by Distributing or a Distributing Affiliate with respect to any taxable period beginning before the Distribution Date, or (ii) that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate other than a position that is consistent with a position taken on a Tax Return filed by Distributing or a Distributing Affiliate with respect to a taxable period beginning before the Distribution Date or a position that is required by applicable law.
               (e) Subject to the requirements of Section 2.04(d) and Section 4.02(b), Controlled shall have the exclusive right with respect to any Tax Return for which it has filing responsibility under Section 2.02 to determine the manner in which such Tax Return shall be prepared and filed, including the elections, method of accounting, positions, conventions and principles of taxation to be used and the manner in which any Tax Item shall be reported. Controlled shall also have the exclusive right with respect to any Tax Return for which it has filing responsibility under Section 2.02 to determine (1) whether to retain outside firms to prepare or review such Tax Returns, (2) whether any extensions shall be requested, (3) whether any amended Tax Returns shall be filed, (4) whether any claims for refund shall be made, and (5) whether any refunds shall be paid by way of refund or credited against any liability for Tax; provided, that upon the request of Distributing, Controlled will use reasonable efforts to file for and obtain any material Tax refund to which Distributing is entitled pursuant to this Agreement if (x) Controlled concludes, in its discretion, that filing for such Tax refund will not adversely affect Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, (y) the refund claim relates solely to Taxes for which Distributing is responsible under this Agreement, and (z) Distributing agrees to and does reimburse Controlled for all expenses incurred in connection with the filing and prosecution of such Tax refund claim.
2.05
Preparation of Tax Package and Other Information.
               (a) Controlled shall provide to Distributing in a format determined by Distributing and consistent with existing practices of Distributing's Affiliated Group all information requested by Distributing to prepare the Tax Returns required to be prepared by Distributing pursuant to Section 2.01 (the "Distributing Tax Package"). The Distributing Tax Package with respect to any taxable year shall be provided by Controlled to Distributing on a basis consistent with current practices of Distributing's Affiliated Group no later than ninety (90) days following the end of such taxable year. Controlled shall also timely provide to Distributing information required by Distributing to determine estimated Tax payments, current federal
 
taxable income, current and deferred tax liabilities, tax reserve items, and any other information reasonably requested by Distributing in a form reasonably requested by Distributing.
               (b) Distributing shall timely provide to Controlled all information reasonably requested by Controlled to prepare Tax Returns required to be prepared by Controlled pursuant to Section 2.02 or to comply with the requirements of Section 6.01 in a form reasonably requested by Controlled.
Section 3. Liability for Taxes.
     3.01 . Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate shall be jointly and severally liable for the following Taxes:
Controlled's Liability for Taxes
               (a) all Non-Income Taxes of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or that relate or are attributable to the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets, for any period; and
               (b) all Income Taxes of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or that relate or are attributable to the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets, for any Post-Distribution Period.
     3.02 . Except with respect to Taxes for which Controlled and/or the Controlled Affiliates are liable pursuant to Section 3.01, Section 3.05, Section 4 or otherwise under this Agreement, Distributing shall be liable for the following Taxes:
Distributing's Liability for Taxes
               (a) all Income Taxes reported or required to be reported on the Consolidated Returns and Combined Returns;
               (b) all Income Taxes not described in Section 3.02(a) of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or that relate or are attributable to the Transferred Businesses or the Transferred Assets, for any Pre-Distribution Period;
               (c) all Income Taxes not described in Section 3.02(a) of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate, or that relate or are attributable to the Retained Business or the Retained Assets, for any Post-Distribution Period; and
               (d) all Non-Income Taxes of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate that relate or are attributable to the Retained Business or the Retained Assets for any period.
     3.03 .
Tax Refunds
               (a) Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates shall be entitled to all refunds of Taxes for which they are responsible under Section 3.01.
               (b) Distributing and the Distributing Affiliates shall be entitled to all refunds of Taxes for which Distributing is responsible under Section 3.02.
     3.04 [Intentionally Omitted.]
 
     3.05 Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate shall be jointly and severally liable for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless Distributing and each Distributing Affiliate from and against, any Taxes incurred as a result of (a) the distribution by DIPS LP as part of the Restructuring Transactions of a 99.9 percent limited partnership interest in LPS I to Pickle, (b) the distribution by DIPS LP as part of the Restructuring Transactions of a 0.1 percent general partner interest in LPS I to Pickle and (c) the taking into account of "intercompany items" resulting from the transactions described in clauses (a) and (b) pursuant to Section 1.1502-13 of the Treasury Regulations because of and in connection with the Distribution; provided, that Controlled's liability under this Section 3.05 shall be limited to $20,000,000.
Transaction Taxes.
     3.06 . If one Party is liable or responsible for Taxes under this Agreement with respect to Tax Returns which another Party is responsible for preparing and filing, or with respect to Taxes that are paid by another Party, then the liable or responsible Party shall pay the Taxes or reimburse the other Party for such Taxes pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement.
Payment of Tax Liability
     3.07 If a Tax Return of Controlled, a Controlled Affiliate or the Controlled Group with respect to a taxable period beginning after the Distribution Date reflects a Tax Asset, such Tax Asset may not be carried back to a Consolidated Return, Combined Return or any other Income Tax Return of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate.
Carrybacks.
     3.08 .
Allocation of Tax Items
               (a) All determinations (whether for purposes of preparing Tax Returns or for purposes of determining a Party's responsibility for Taxes under this Agreement) regarding the allocation of Tax Items to Pre-Distribution Periods and Post-Distribution Periods (including allocations between the portion of a Straddle Period that is a Pre-Distribution Period and the portion of a Straddle Period that is a Post-Distribution Period) shall be made pursuant to the principles of section 1.1502-76(b) of the Treasury Regulations or of a corresponding provision under the laws of other jurisdictions; provided, that no election shall be made under section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(ii) of the Treasury Regulations (relating to ratable allocations of a year's items). Any such allocation of Income Tax Items shall initially be made by Distributing. To the extent that Controlled disagrees with such determination, the dispute shall be resolved pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.03.
               (b) For purposes of determining the Parties' respective responsibilities for Non-Income Taxes under this Agreement, the determination of whether and to what extent Non-Income Taxes relate or are attributable to the Transferred Assets or the Transferred Businesses, or to the Retained Assets or the Retained Business, shall initially be made by the Party preparing the relevant Non-Income Tax Return. If the other Party disagrees with such determination, the disagreement shall be resolved pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.03.
               (c) The allocation of earnings and profits between Distributing and Controlled shall be determined pursuant to section 312(h) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. Such determination shall be initially made by Distributing on or before October 15, 2006, and timely provided to Controlled (with any necessary supporting material). To the extent Controlled disagrees with such determination, the dispute shall be resolved pursuant to the
 
provisions of Section 10.03. Other Tax attributes shall be allocated between Distributing and Controlled in the manner provided by law.
               (d) Neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall take any action on the Distribution Date (or, if earlier, after receiving Transferred Assets) other than in the ordinary course of business, except for actions undertaken in connection with the Restructuring Transactions and the Distribution that are described in the Initial Ruling, the Initial Ruling Documents, the Distribution Agreement and/or the Form 10.
Section 4. Distribution Taxes.
     4.01
Representations.
               (a) Except for matters described on Schedule 4.01, Controlled represents that none of Controlled, the Controlled Affiliates, or the Controlled Representatives has entered into or is aware of any agreement, understanding, arrangement, substantial negotiations or discussions within two years before the Distribution Date with respect to (i) any issuance, redemption, or acquisition of stock of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, other than as described in the Initial Ruling, issuances of Controlled stock, stock options and restricted stock units to New Management and Gregg Engles described in the Form 10, and Qualifying Compensatory Transfers; (ii) any merger or consolidation of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate with any Person other than as described in the Initial Ruling; (iii) any acquisition by Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate of any Person or of all or substantially all of the assets of any Person following the Distribution (other than Bay Valley's acquisition of assets from Controlled following the Distribution); (iv) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate or any of the Transferred Businesses by any Person (other than the acquisition of the Transferred Businesses by Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates as part of the Restructuring Transactions and Bay Valley's acquisition of assets from Controlled following the Distribution); or (v) any other transaction or event that could, alone or in combination with other transactions or events that any of Controlled, the Controlled Affiliates or the Controlled Representatives has entered into any agreement, understanding, negotiations or discussions with respect to (or of which any of them is aware), cause section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the Distribution. Controlled represents that Bay Valley is and will remain wholly-owned by Controlled and disregarded as an entity separate from Controlled for federal tax purposes.
               (b) Except for matters described on Schedule 4.01, Distributing represents that none of Distributing, the Distributing Affiliates or the Distributing Representatives has entered into or is aware of any agreement, understanding, arrangement, substantial negotiations or discussions within two years before the Distribution Date with respect to (i) the issuance, redemption, or acquisition of stock of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, other than as described in the Initial Ruling, issuances of Controlled stock, stock options and restricted stock units to New Management and Gregg Engles described in the Form 10, and Qualifying Compensatory Transfers; (ii) any merger of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate with any Person other than as described in the Initial Ruling; (iii) the acquisition by Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate of any Person or of all or substantially all of the assets of any Person following the Distribution (other than Bay Valley's acquisition of assets from Controlled
 
following the Distribution); (iv) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate or any of the Transferred Businesses by any Person (other than the acquisition of the Transferred Businesses by Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates as part of the Restructuring Transactions and Bay Valley's acquisition of assets from Controlled following the Distribution); or (v) any other transaction or event involving the stock or assets of Controlled that could, alone or in combination with other transactions and events that Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate or any Distributing Representative has entered into any agreement, understanding, arrangement, negotiations or discussions with respect to (or of which any of them is aware), cause section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the Distribution.
               (c) Distributing represents that none of Distributing, the Distributing Affiliates or the Distributing Representatives has entered into an agreement, understanding, or arrangement with any Person pursuant to substantial negotiations or discussions described in item 1 on Schedule 4.01 which will obligate Controlled, any Controlled Affiliate, or any Controlled shareholder to (i) issue, redeem, or dispose of stock of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate following the Distribution; (ii) merge Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate with any other Person following the Distribution; (iii) acquire another Person or all or substantially all of the assets of any other Person following the Distribution (other than Bay Valley's acquisition of assets from Controlled following the Distribution); or (iv) sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate or any of the Transferred Businesses following the Distribution (other than transfers of assets from Controlled to Bay Valley following the Distribution).
     4.02 .
Actions Inconsistent with Rulings or Tax Opinion
               (a) Controlled represents that none of Controlled, the Controlled Affiliates or the Controlled Representatives has taken any action that is inconsistent with the Initial Ruling, or any information, covenant or representation contained in the Initial Ruling Documents. Distributing represents that none of Distributing, the Distributing Affiliates or the Distributing Representatives has taken any action that is inconsistent with the Initial Ruling, or any information, covenant or representation contained in the Initial Ruling Documents.
               (b) Unless otherwise required by a Final Determination, Controlled agrees that it will not take or fail to take, or cause or permit any Controlled Affiliate to take or fail to take, any action, including a position on any Tax Return or in any Tax Proceeding, that would be inconsistent with (1) any representation in this Agreement, (2) the Initial Ruling, or any information, covenant or representation contained in the Initial Ruling Documents, (3) the Tax Opinion or any representation made in the Controlled Representation Letter or (4) the tax treatment of the Distribution as tax-free under section 355 of the Code.
               (c) Unless otherwise required by a Final Determination, Distributing agrees that it will not take or fail to take, or cause or permit any Distributing Affiliate to take or fail to take, any action, including a position on any Tax Return or in any Tax Proceeding, that would be inconsistent with (1) any representation in this Agreement, (2) the Initial Ruling, or any information, covenant or representation contained in the Initial Ruling Documents, (3) the Tax Opinion or any representation made in the Distributing Representation Letter, or (4) the tax treatment of the Distribution as tax-free under section 355 of the Code.
 
4.03
Liability.
               (a) Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate shall be jointly and severally liable for, and shall pay and indemnify and hold harmless Distributing and each Distributing Affiliate from and against, any Distribution Taxes to the extent that such Distribution Taxes are attributable to, caused by or result from one or more of the following:
                    (i) any action or omission by Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate after the Distribution;
                    (ii) any event or transaction after the Distribution that involves the stock, assets and/or business of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, whether or not such event or transaction is the result of direct action of, or within the control of, Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, including without limitation any acquisition of any stock or assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate by one or more other Persons;
                    (iii) any breach or inaccuracy of any representation in the Controlled Representation Letter;
                    (iv) any breach of any representation or covenant of Controlled set forth in, or made pursuant to, this Agreement or the Distribution Agreement; or
                    (v) any action described in Section 4.04(a) below, regardless of whether such action is permitted pursuant to Section 4.04(b) or Section 4.05 below.
               (b) Distributing shall be liable for, and shall pay and indemnify and hold harmless Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate from and against, any Distribution Taxes to the extent such Distribution Taxes are attributable to, caused by or result from one or more of the following:
                    (i) any action or omission by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate after the Distribution;
                    (ii) any event or transaction after the Distribution that involves the stock, assets and/or business of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate, whether or not such event or transaction is the result of direct action of, or within the control of, Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate, including without limitation any acquisition of any stock or assets of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate by one or more other Persons;
                    (iii) any breach or inaccuracy of any representation in the Distributing Representation Letter; provided, that in determining whether there is a breach or inaccuracy of a representation in the Distributing Representation Letter for purposes of this Section 4.03(b)(iii), the term "Distributing Representative" as used in the Distributing Representation Letter shall not include (a) any Person treated as a Controlled Representative hereunder pursuant to the definition of Controlled Representative, or (b) with respect to actions taken on or after June 24, 2005, any Person who became an employee of Controlled or a Controlled Affiliate following the Restructuring Transactions that occurred on June 24,
 
2005 and who will serve as a director or officer of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate following the Distribution;
                    (iv) any breach of any representation or covenant of Distributing set forth in, or made pursuant to, this Agreement or the Distribution Agreement;
                    (v) any omission in the information provided by Distributing to the IRS in the Initial Ruling Documents; or
                    (vi) any failure to execute Steps 1 through 31 of the Transactions (as such term is defined in the Initial Ruling) in the manner described in the Initial Ruling.
               (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.03(a) and Section 4.03(b), but subject to Section 4.03(d), Distributing shall be liable for 50 percent, and Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate shall be jointly and severally liable for 50 percent, of any Distribution Taxes to the extent such Distribution Taxes are attributable to, caused by or result from:
                    (i) any adoption, amendment or change of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, or any change in the interpretation or application of any existing law, rule, or regulation as reflected in any judicial decision or any ruling, notice or other administrative determination or announcement by a Taxing Authority after the date of this Agreement; or
                    (ii) any breach of a representation that is included or incorporated by reference in each of the Distributing Representation Letter and the Controlled Representation Letter, or that is made by each of Distributing and Controlled under the terms of this Agreement or the Distribution Agreement.
               (d) In determining the Parties' liability for Distribution Taxes pursuant to this Section 4.03, the following rules shall apply:
                    (i) If Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates are liable for Distribution Taxes pursuant to Section 4.03(a)(i), Section 4.03(a)(ii) or Section 4.03(a)(v), Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates shall be exclusively liable for such Distribution Taxes regardless of whether Distributing could be treated as liable for all or a portion of those Distribution Taxes pursuant to Section 4.03(b)(iii), Section 4.03(b)(iv), Section 4.03(b)(v) or Section 4.03(c)(ii); provided, that this Section 4.03(d)(i) shall not apply to, and Distributing shall be exclusively responsible for, Distribution Taxes that result from or are attributable to a breach of the representation set forth in Section 4.01(c).
                    (ii) If Distributing is liable for Distribution Taxes pursuant to Section 4.03(b)(i) or Section 4.03(b)(ii), Distributing shall be exclusively liable for such Distribution Taxes regardless of whether Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates could be treated as liable for all or a portion of those Distribution Taxes pursuant to Section 4.03(a)(iii), Section 4.03(a)(iv) or Section 4.03(c)(ii).
                    (iii) Distributing shall not be liable under Section 4.03(b)(iii), Section 4.03(b)(iv) or Section 4.03(c)(ii) for Distribution Taxes attributable to a breach of any representation made "to the best knowledge of Distributing" or with a similar
 
qualification to the extent that (A) the representation relates to Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or actions, plans or intentions of Controlled, any Controlled Affiliate or any Controlled Representative, and (B) Controlled has made the same or a substantially similar representation in this Agreement or the Controlled Representation Letter without a "to the best knowledge of Controlled" or similar qualification.
                    (iv) Controlled shall not be liable under Section 4.03(a)(iii), Section 4.03(a)(iv) or Section 4.03(c)(ii) for Distribution Taxes attributable to a breach of a representation made "to the best knowledge of Controlled" or with a similar qualification to the extent that the representation relates to Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, or any Distributing Representative or actions, plans or intentions of Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, or any Distributing Representative.
                    (v) Controlled shall not be liable under Section 4.03(a)(iii) or Section 4.03(c)(ii) for Distribution Taxes attributable to a breach of representation 1 or representation 3 in the Controlled Representation Letter; provided, that this Section 4.03(d)(v) shall not affect Controlled's liability for Distribution Taxes with respect to a breach of any other representation in the Controlled Representation Letter or otherwise under this Agreement.
                    (vi) Distributing shall not be liable under Section 4.03(b)(iii) or Section 4.03(c)(ii) for Distribution Taxes resulting from or attributable to a breach of representation 2 in the Distributing Representation Letter unless the breach is of an underlying representation in the Initial Ruling or the Initial Ruling Documents that (A) is also included in the same or substantially similar form on Schedule A to the Controlled Representation Letter, in which case the Parties' liabilities for the resulting Distribution Taxes shall be as described in Section 4.03(c); or (B) relates solely to Distributing or a Distributing Affiliate (and not to Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or to any actions, plans or intentions of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate).
     4.04
Covenants.
               (a) Controlled agrees that, until the day after the second anniversary of the Distribution, Controlled will not and will cause each of the Controlled Affiliates not to:
                    (i) sell, exchange, distribute or otherwise transfer to any entity that does not file a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return with Controlled any of the assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate (other than sales or transfers of assets in the ordinary course of business), or any stock or other equity interest in any Controlled Affiliate, if such transaction would result in the disposition (individually or in the aggregate) of assets, stock or other equity interests having an aggregate fair market value (as measured as of the date of the respective sale, exchange, distribution or other transfer) of more than 40% of the fair market value of the net assets of the Controlled Group;
                    (ii) liquidate Controlled or merge Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate with any Person (without regard to which Party is the surviving entity);
 
, that this Section 4.04(a)(ii) shall not apply to (1) a merger of any Controlled Affiliate into Controlled or another Controlled Affiliate in cases in which the Controlled Affiliate(s) involved in the merger file a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return with Controlled, (2) a merger of another Person into Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate to effect the acquisition of all of the assets of such other Person if none of the consideration provided by Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate is a Controlled Equity Interest, and (3) a merger of a subsidiary of Controlled with and into another Person to effect the acquisition by Controlled of all of the stock or other equity interests of such other Person if none of the consideration provided to owners of stock or other equity interests in such other Person in connection with the merger is a Controlled Equity Interest;
provided
                    (iii) discontinue the active conduct of the Historic Business or sell, exchange, or transfer the Historic Business or the assets used therein to any Person, other than (A) transfers of assets in the ordinary course of the Historic Business and (B) transfers to Bay Valley;
                    (iv) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any of Controlled's outstanding stock other than through stock purchases meeting the requirements of section 4.05(1)(b) of Rev. Proc. 96-30 (as in effect prior to its modification by Rev. Proc. 2003-48) (and as may be modified or amended from time to time);
                    (v) issue any stock (including, without limitation, restricted stock) or other equity interests (including, without limitation, stock options) in Controlled, except (A) as described in the Initial Ruling and (B) for issuances of stock meeting the requirements of Safe Harbor VIII as set forth in Treasury Regulations section 1.355-7(d)(8);
                    (vi) enter into any agreement for, facilitate or otherwise participate in the sale or other disposition by any Person other than Controlled of Controlled stock or any other equity interest in Controlled;
                    (vii) take or fail to take any action inconsistent with the information, representations or covenants included in the Rulings or the Ruling Documents or the representations made by Controlled in the Controlled Representation Letter;
                    (viii) enter into, or permit any of their directors, officers, controlling shareholders (within the meaning of section 1.355-7(h)(3) of the Treasury Regulations) or any Person with the implicit or explicit permission (within the meaning of section 1.355-7 of the Treasury Regulations) of any of the foregoing to enter into, any agreement, understanding, arrangement or negotiations concerning any transaction involving any acquisition of the stock of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, or any non-ordinary course acquisition of the assets of Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, in each case, by any Person identified in item 1 on Schedule 4.01 or any Person bearing a relationship to a Person so listed that could cause such transaction to be treated as a "similar acquisition" within the meaning of section 1.355-7(h)(12) of the Treasury Regulations; or
 
                    (ix) cause or permit Bay Valley to be treated as other than an entity that is wholly-owned by Controlled and disregarded as an entity separate from Controlled for federal tax purposes.
For purposes of Section 4.04(a)(i) and 4.04(a)(ii)(1), an entity that is and will remain wholly-owned (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) by Controlled or a Controlled Affiliate that files a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return with Controlled, and disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes as an entity separate from Controlled or such a Controlled Affiliate, will be treated as filing a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return with Controlled.
               (b) Notwithstanding Section 4.04(a), Controlled may take an action described in Section 4.04(a)(ii), (iv), (v) or (vi) if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
                    (i) Following the proposed action, one or more Persons will not have acquired and will not have the right to acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 40 percent (by vote or value) of the outstanding stock of Controlled (determined immediately following such action) taking into account all issuances, redemptions or other acquisitions of stock of Controlled and any asset acquisition treated as an acquisition of stock of Controlled under section 355(e)(3)(B) (and any agreements with respect to any such issuances, redemptions or acquisitions), and assuming the exercise or conversion of all options, warrants or similar exercisable or convertible securities and the closing of all relevant agreements, from the date two years prior to the Distribution to the date immediately following the proposed action and any other transaction which is part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Distribution within the meaning of section 355(e) of the Code;
                    (ii) If the proposed action is a merger involving Controlled, Controlled will be the surviving entity; and
                    (iii) At least seven (7) days prior to entering into any agreement contemplating an action that is intended to qualify under this Section 4.04(b), Controlled provides to Distributing a description of the relevant facts and a certification signed by an authorized officer of Controlled attesting that, after an investigation of the facts and receiving advice concerning the applicable law, Controlled finds and represents to Distributing that the requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) are satisfied and will be satisfied as of the time the proposed action occurs.
     4.05 .
Exceptions to Covenants
               (a) Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates may take actions inconsistent with the covenants contained in Section 4.04(a) (and not permitted under Section 4.04(b)) ("Restricted Actions") if prior to taking such actions:
                    (i) Distributing consents in writing to the Restricted Actions, such consent to be determined by Distributing in its sole discretion taking into account solely the preservation of the tax-free status of the Distribution and the tax treatment of the Restructuring Transactions;
 
                    (ii) Distributing, at the request of Controlled, obtains a Supplemental Ruling from the IRS in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Distributing that the Restricted Actions will not result in the Distribution being taxable to Distributing or Distributing's shareholders and will not adversely affect the Tax treatment of the Restructuring Transactions; provided, that Distributing shall not be obligated to request such a ruling if it determines in good faith that such request could have an adverse effect on Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate or Distributing's shareholders; or
                    (iii) Controlled has delivered to Distributing an Unqualified Opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Distributing from counsel selected by Controlled and reasonably acceptable to Distributing that the Restricted Actions will not result in the Distribution being taxable to Distributing or Distributing's shareholders and will not adversely affect the Tax treatment of the Restructuring Transactions.
               (b) Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates will be jointly and severally liable for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless Distributing and each of the Distributing Affiliates from and against, any Taxes resulting from or attributable to any Restricted Action (even if such Restricted Action is permitted pursuant to Section 4.04(b) or this Section 4.05); provided, that notwithstanding Section 4.03(a)(v) and this Section 4.05(b), neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall be liable for Taxes resulting from a Restricted Action to the extent that such Taxes result from a breach of any representation, warranty or covenant made by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate as part of obtaining a Supplemental Ruling or an Unqualified Opinion.
     4.06 Not less than seven (7) business days prior to entering into any oral or written contract or agreement, and not more than five (5) days after it first becomes aware of any negotiations, plans or intentions (regardless of whether it is a Party to such negotiations, plans or intentions), regarding any of the transactions described in Section 4.04(a) of this Agreement, Controlled shall provide written notice to Distributing of its intent to engage in such transaction or of the negotiations, plans or intentions of which it becomes aware, as the case may be.
Notice of Specified Transactions.
     4.07 .
Private Letter Rulings
               (a) Distributing represents that it has provided Controlled with accurate and complete copies of the Initial Ruling and all Initial Ruling Documents submitted on or prior to the date hereof.
               (b) If Controlled requests that Distributing seek a Supplemental Ruling under Section 4.05(a)(ii) or otherwise, Distributing shall cooperate with Controlled to seek to obtain, in a timely manner, such a Supplemental Ruling (including by making representations reasonably requested by Controlled or the relevant Taxing Authority regarding Distributing and Distributing Affiliates, if such representations are true, correct and complete); provided, that Distributing shall not be obligated to request such a ruling if it determines in good faith that such request could have an adverse effect on Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate or Distributing's shareholders. If Controlled requests that Distributing seek a Supplemental Ruling under Section
 
4.05(a)(ii) or otherwise, Controlled shall reimburse Distributing for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate in connection with seeking and/or obtaining a Supplemental Ruling.
               (c) Distributing shall have the right to seek a Supplemental Ruling in its sole and absolute discretion. Controlled and the other Controlled Affiliates shall cooperate with Distributing and take any and all actions reasonably requested by Distributing in connection with seeking and obtaining such a Supplemental Ruling (including making representations reasonably requested by Distributing or the relevant Taxing Authority regarding Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates, if such representations are true, correct and complete); provided, that if Distributing seeks a Supplemental Ruling that was not requested by Controlled (whether pursuant to Section 4.05(a)(ii) or otherwise), Distributing shall reimburse Controlled for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses that Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate incurs in connection with seeking and/or obtaining such Supplemental Ruling.
               (d) If Distributing requests a Supplemental Ruling or other guidance after the date of this Agreement, (1) Distributing shall keep Controlled informed in a timely manner of all material actions taken or proposed to be taken by Distributing in connection therewith; and (2) Distributing shall (A) reasonably in advance of the submission of any Supplemental Ruling Documents to the Taxing Authority provide Controlled with a draft copy thereof, (B) consult in good faith with and reasonably consider Controlled's comments on such draft copy, and (C) provide Controlled with an accurate and complete copy of the Supplemental Ruling and Supplemental Ruling Documents.
               (e) In no event shall Distributing be required to file any Supplemental Ruling Documents unless Controlled represents in writing that (1) it has read the Supplemental Ruling Documents and (2) all information, representations and covenants, if any, relating to Controlled (or any Controlled Affiliate) contained in the Supplemental Ruling Documents are true, correct and complete. With respect to any Supplemental Ruling Documents to be filed with a Taxing Authority by Distributing after the date of this Agreement that include representations, covenants or information regarding Controlled and/or any Controlled Affiliate, Controlled shall as promptly as practicable, and in any event within five (5) business days of receipt of a draft of such Supplemental Ruling Documents from Distributing, provide Distributing written notice which shall either (i) state that Controlled agrees that the representations, covenants and information regarding Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates contained in such Supplemental Ruling Documents are true, correct and complete; (ii) state that certain representations, covenants or information regarding Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates contained in such Supplemental Ruling Documents are inaccurate and provide proposed revisions and/or corrected information that, if incorporated by Distributing in the Supplemental Ruling Documents in the manner suggested by Controlled will cause such representations, covenants or information to be true, correct and complete, and Controlled will be deemed to have agreed to such representations, covenants or information as so revised; or (iii) advise Distributing that, because of the complexity of the covenants, representations or information regarding Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates, or the unavailability to Controlled of certain information, Controlled in good faith reasonably requires an additional number of business days to respond and that Controlled will respond in accordance with either clause (i) or (ii) above within such additional business days. Notwithstanding clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, if
 
Distributing notifies Controlled that Distributing would like to provide the Supplemental Ruling Documents to the IRS or other Taxing Authority more quickly than the time allotted in clause (iii), then Controlled will use best efforts to perform actions to satisfy Distributing's request to expedite its response.
               (f) Neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall seek any guidance (whether written or oral) from the IRS or any other Taxing Authority concerning the Distribution except pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement regarding Supplemental Rulings.
               (g) To the extent that Controlled elects to obtain an Unqualified Tax Opinion for purposes of Section 4.05(a)(iii) regarding Restricted Actions, Distributing shall cooperate in good faith with Controlled's efforts to timely obtain such an opinion, including providing to Controlled any information in Distributing or Distributing Affiliates' control that is reasonably necessary to issue such opinion and executing representation letters as to matters relating to Distributing and the Distributing Affiliates if (i) such representation letters are in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Distributing, and (ii) Distributing agrees that the information and representations contained therein are true, correct and complete. Controlled shall reimburse Distributing for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate in connection with an Unqualified Opinion sought or obtained by Controlled, including out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Distributing in connection with its review of the opinion and any representations proposed to be made by Distributing.
               (h) To the extent that a Supplemental Ruling or Unqualified Tax Opinion is obtained in accordance with this Section 4, Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate and Distributing shall not take or fail to take (and Distributing shall not allow any Distributing Affiliate to take or fail to take) any action (including in each case any position on any Tax Return) that is inconsistent with the Supplemental Ruling or the Unqualified Tax Opinion or any information, representation, or covenant provided by such Party in connection with the Supplemental Ruling Documents or in connection with obtaining the Unqualified Tax Opinion, in each case, unless otherwise required by a Final Determination.
Section 5.
Stock Options.
     5.01 Distributing shall be entitled to claim on its Tax Returns any Tax deduction attributable to the exercise of an option to purchase Distributing stock, and neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall attempt to claim any such Tax deduction. Distributing shall withhold applicable Taxes and satisfy applicable Tax reporting requirements with respect to the exercise of options to purchase Distributing stock.
     5.02 Controlled shall be entitled to claim on its Tax Returns any Tax deduction attributable to the exercise of an option to purchase Controlled stock, and neither Distributing nor any Distributing Affiliate shall attempt to claim any such Tax deduction. Controlled shall withhold applicable Taxes and satisfy applicable Tax reporting requirements with respect to the exercise of options to purchase Controlled stock.
     5.03 To the extent that any Tax deduction claimed by Distributing attributable to the exercise of any option to purchase Distributing stock is disallowed by any Taxing Authority, and
 
Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate is as a result entitled to such Tax deduction, Distributing shall notify Controlled of the receipt of such determination, promptly after the receipt thereof. Controlled shall pay to Distributing the lesser of the amount of the Tax Benefit realized by Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate attributable to the Tax deduction and the amount of Distributing's corresponding Tax Detriment from the denial of such Tax deduction. To the extent that any Tax deduction claimed by Controlled attributable to the exercise of any option to purchase Controlled stock is disallowed by any Taxing Authority, and Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate is as a result entitled to such Tax deduction, Controlled shall notify Distributing of the receipt of such determination, promptly after the receipt thereof, and Distributing shall pay to Controlled the lesser of the amount of Tax Benefit realized by Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate attributable to the Tax deduction and the amount of Controlled's corresponding Tax Detriment from the denial of such Tax deduction.
Section 6.
Successor Employer
.
     6.01 . Controlled shall assume the Form W-2 and Form W-3 reporting obligations (including the filing of all forms necessary to comply with magnetic media reporting requirements) of Distributing with respect to any employee of the Transferred Businesses that Controlled employs during the calendar year which includes the Distribution Date consistent with the procedures set forth in section 5 of Rev. Proc. 2004-53, 2004-34 I.R.B. 320.
Employee Wages
Section 7.
Indemnification
     7.01 . Controlled and each Controlled Affiliate shall jointly and severally indemnify, defend and hold harmless Distributing, each Distributing Affiliate, and each of their directors, officers, employees, and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Distributing Indemnified Parties"), from and against any Taxes for which Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate is liable under this Agreement ("Controlled Taxes") and any and all Losses and Expenses incurred or suffered by one or more of the Distributing Indemnified Parties in connection with, relating to, arising out of or due to, directly or indirectly:
Indemnification by Controlled
               (a) any Controlled Taxes or any Tax Proceeding relating thereto;
               (b) any inaccuracy or breach of any representation or covenant of Controlled and/or any Controlled Affiliate set forth in this Agreement or in any document provided pursuant to the terms hereof; provided, that neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate shall have any liability pursuant to this Section 7.01(b) for or with respect to any Distribution Taxes (or any Losses or Expenses related thereto) if neither Controlled nor any Controlled Affiliate is liable for such Distribution Taxes under Section 4; or
               (c) Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate supplying Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate with inaccurate or incomplete information in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return, any request for a Supplemental Ruling, or any Tax Proceeding.
     7.02 . Distributing shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Controlled, each Controlled Affiliate, and each of their directors, officers, employees,
Indemnification by Distributing
 
and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Controlled Indemnified Parties"), from and against any Taxes for which Distributing is liable under this Agreement ("Distributing Taxes") and any and all Losses and Expenses incurred or suffered by one or more of the Controlled Indemnified Parties in connection with, relating to, arising out of or due to, directly or indirectly:
               (a) any Distributing Taxes or any Tax Proceeding relating thereto;
               (b) any inaccuracy or breach of any representation or covenant of Distributing set forth in this Agreement or in any document provided pursuant to the terms hereof; provided, that Distributing shall not have any liability pursuant to this Section 7.02(b) for or with respect to any Distribution Taxes (or any Losses or Expenses related thereto) if Distributing is not liable for such Distribution Taxes under Section 4; or
               (c) Distributing supplying Controlled with inaccurate or incomplete information in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return, any request for a Supplemental Ruling, or any Tax Proceeding.
     7.03 . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of the existence or amount of any loss, credit, carryforward, basis or other Tax Item or Tax Asset, whether past, present or future, of Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate. In addition, for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require compensation by either Party hereto in respect of any deferred tax assets or liabilities.
No Indemnification for Tax Items
Section 8. Payments.
     8.01
Payments In Connection With Tax Return Filings.
               (a) If a Tax Return is filed by Distributing after the Distribution Date pursuant to Section 2.01 and Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate is liable under this Agreement for all or any portion of the Taxes reported on such Tax Return, Distributing shall provide Controlled with a written calculation in reasonable detail setting forth the amount of the Taxes shown as due on such Tax Return for which Controlled and/or the Controlled Affiliate is liable. Controlled shall have fifteen (15) days to object to the written calculation provided by Distributing. If by the end of the fifteen (15) day period Controlled has either agreed or failed to object to Distributing's calculation, the calculation shall be deemed final and Controlled shall pay to Distributing the amount set forth thereon within thirty (30) days of the date on which Distributing provided the calculation to Controlled. If Controlled notifies Distributing within the fifteen (15) day period that it disputes Distributing's calculation, Controlled shall nevertheless pay to Distributing any amount not in dispute within thirty (30) days of the date on which Distributing provided the calculation to Controlled and the Parties shall resolve the dispute as to any remaining amounts pursuant to Section 10.03.
               (b) If a Tax Return is filed by Controlled after the Distribution Date pursuant to Section 2.02(a) and Distributing is liable under this Agreement for all or any portion of the Taxes reported on such Tax Return, Controlled shall provide Distributing with a written calculation in reasonable detail setting forth the amount of the Taxes shown as due on such Tax
 
Return for which Distributing is liable. Distributing shall have fifteen (15) days to object to the written calculation provided by Controlled. If by the end of the fifteen (15) day period, Distributing has either agreed or failed to object to Controlled's calculation, the calculation shall be deemed final and Distributing shall pay to Controlled the amount set forth thereon within thirty (30) days of the date on which Controlled provided the calculation to Distributing. If Distributing notifies Controlled within the fifteen (15) day period that it disputes Controlled's calculation, Distributing shall nevertheless pay to Controlled any amount not in dispute within thirty (30) days of the date on which Controlled provided the calculation to Distributing and the Parties shall resolve the dispute as to any remaining amounts pursuant to Section 10.03.
     8.02 . In the event of a redetermination or adjustment of the amount of any Taxes reported on any Tax Return as a result of a refund of Taxes paid, the filing of an amended Tax Return, a Final Determination, or any settlement or compromise with any Taxing Authority, the Party responsible for preparing and filing the Tax Return under Section 2 (the "Filing Party") shall, if the redetermination or adjustment results in an increase in the amount of Taxes for which another Party is liable hereunder, provide such other Party a written statement setting forth in reasonable detail the effect of the redetermination or adjustment on the amount of the Taxes for which such other Party is liable under this Agreement. The other Party shall have fifteen (15) days to object to such written statement. If the other Party either agrees or fails to object to the written statement within the fifteen (15) day period, the written statement shall be deemed final and the other Party shall pay to the Filing Party the amount set forth thereon not later than thirty (30) days after the written statement was provided. If the other Party notifies the Filing Party within the fifteen (15) day period that it disputes the written statement, the other Party shall nevertheless pay to the Filing Party any amount not in dispute within thirty (30) days of the date on which the statement was initially provided and the Parties shall resolve the dispute as to any remaining amounts pursuant to Section 10.03.
Redetermination Amounts
     8.03 . If one Party receives a refund (whether by payment or credit) of any Tax to which the other Party is entitled pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement, the Party receiving such refund shall pay to the other Party the amount of such refund within thirty (30) days of receipt of such refund and the amount (on an after-tax basis) of any interest received from the applicable Taxing Authority.
Payments of Refunds and Credits
     8.04 . In the event that one Party (the "Owing Party") is required to make a payment to another Party (the "Owed Party") pursuant to this Agreement, then such payments shall be made according to this Section 8.04.
Payments Under This Agreement
               (a) . All payments shall be made to the Owed Party or to the appropriate Taxing Authority as specified by the Owed Party within the time prescribed for payment in this Agreement, or if no period is prescribed, within thirty (30) days after delivery of written notice of payment owing together with a computation of the amounts due.
In General
               (b) . Unless otherwise required by any Final Determination, the Parties agree that any payments made by one Party to another Party (other than payments of interest pursuant to Section 8.04(e) of this Agreement and payments of After-Tax Amounts pursuant to Section 8.04(d) of this Agreement) pursuant to this Agreement shall to the extent permissible under applicable law be treated for all Tax and financial accounting
Treatment of Payments
 
purposes as nontaxable payments made immediately prior to the Distribution and, accordingly, as not includible in the taxable income of the recipient or as deductible by the payor.
               (c) . All actions required to be taken (including payments) by any Party under this Agreement shall be performed within the time prescribed for performance in this Agreement, or if no period is prescribed, such actions shall be performed promptly.
Prompt Performance
               (d) . If pursuant to a Final Determination it is determined that the receipt or accrual of any payment made under this Agreement (other than payments of interest pursuant to Section 8.04(e) of this Agreement) is subject to any Tax, the Party making such payment shall be liable for (a) the After-Tax Amount with respect to such payment and (b) interest at the rate described in Section 8.04(e) of this Agreement on the amount of such Tax from the date such Tax accrues through the date of payment of such After-Tax Amount. A Party making a demand for a payment pursuant to this Agreement and for a payment of an After-Tax Amount with respect to such payment shall separately specify and compute such After-Tax Amount. However, a Party may choose not to specify an After-Tax Amount in a demand for payment pursuant to this Agreement without thereby being deemed to have waived its right subsequently to demand an After-Tax Amount with respect to such payment.
After-Tax Amounts
               (e) . Payments pursuant to this Agreement that are not made within the period prescribed in this Agreement (the "Payment Period") shall bear interest for the period from and including the date immediately following the last date of the Payment Period through and including the date of payment at a per annum rate equal to the prime rate as published in The Wall Street Journal on the last day of such Payment Period, plus two percent (2%). Such interest will be payable at the same time as the payment to which it relates and shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days and the actual number of days for which it is due.
Interest
Section 9. Tax Proceedings.
     9.01 . Within twenty (20) days after a Party becomes aware of the existence of an issue in a Tax Proceeding that may give rise to an indemnification obligation of another Party under this Agreement, such Party shall give notice to the other Party of such issue (such notice shall contain factual information, to the extent known, describing any asserted Tax liability in reasonable detail), and shall promptly forward to the other Party copies of all notices and material communications with any Taxing Authority relating to such issue. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if a Party to this Agreement fails to provide the other Party notice as required by this Section 9.01, and the failure results in a detriment to the other Party, then any amount which the other Party is otherwise required to pay pursuant to this Agreement shall be reduced by the amount of such detriment.
Notice
     9.02 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.03 or 9.04, the Filing Party with respect to a Tax Return shall have the exclusive right to control, contest, and represent the interests of Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, Controlled, and any Controlled Affiliate in any Tax Proceeding relating to such Tax Return and to resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Proceeding. The Filing Party's rights shall extend to any matter pertaining to the
In General
 
management and control of the Tax Proceeding, including execution of waivers, choice of forum, scheduling of conferences, the resolution of any Tax Item, and the determination of whether to pay any disputed Taxes and sue for a refund in the forum of its choice. The non-Filing Party shall assist and cooperate with the Filing Party during the course of any such Tax Proceeding. The Filing Party shall use reasonable efforts to provide the non-Filing Party notice of and consult with the non-Filing Party regarding the conduct of any such Tax Proceeding to the extent that such Tax Proceeding relates to any Taxes for which the non-Filing Party may have indemnification obligations under this Agreement. The Filing Party shall not settle any Tax Proceeding it controls in a manner that would affect the indemnification obligations of the non-Filing Party hereunder without obtaining the non-Filing Party's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
     9.03 Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.04, the non-Filing Party shall have the exclusive right, at its expense, to control, contest, and represent the interests of Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, Controlled, and any Controlled Affiliate in any Tax Proceeding relating exclusively to a Sole Responsibility Item if the non-Filing Party acknowledges in writing that it has sole liability for any Taxes that might arise from such Tax Proceeding and the resolution of such Tax Proceeding could not reasonably be expected to adversely affect the Filing Party. If the non-Filing Party assumes control of a Tax Proceeding pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Filing Party shall assist and cooperate with the non-Filing Party during the course of any such Tax Proceeding. The non-Filing Party shall use reasonable efforts to provide the Filing Party notice of and consult with the Filing Party regarding the conduct of any such Tax Proceeding and shall not settle any such Tax Proceeding without the Filing Party's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Sole Responsibility Items.
     9.04 . Distributing shall have the exclusive right, in its sole discretion, to control, contest, and represent the interests of Distributing, any Distributing Affiliate, Controlled, and any Controlled Affiliate in any Tax Proceedings relating to Distribution Taxes and to resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Tax Proceeding; provided, that (i) Distributing shall not settle any such Tax Proceeding with respect to any material Distribution Taxes for which Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate would reasonably be expected to be liable hereunder without the prior consent of Controlled, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and (ii) to the extent that an issue is raised in the Tax Proceeding with respect to the Distribution that if resolved against the taxpayer could reasonably be expected to result in Controlled having any liability for any Distribution Taxes hereunder, Distributing shall (A) provide Controlled with a reasonable opportunity to participate in such Tax Proceeding at Controlled's sole cost and expense; (B) take reasonable steps to ensure Controlled is informed of any developments in the Tax Proceeding; and (C) provide Controlled with copies of any written material prior to submission to the Taxing Authority regarding the Distribution. Distributing's rights shall extend to any matter pertaining to the management and control of such Tax Proceeding, including execution of waivers, choice of forum, and scheduling of conferences. Controlled may assume control of any Tax Proceeding relating to Distribution Taxes if it acknowledges in writing that it has sole liability under this Agreement for any Distribution Taxes that might arise in such Tax Proceeding and can demonstrate to the satisfaction of Distributing that it can satisfy its liability for any such Distribution Taxes; provided, that Controlled shall not have the right to assume control of any Tax Proceeding
Control of Distribution Tax Proceedings
 
relating to Distribution Taxes if Distributing reasonably determines that the outcome of such Tax Proceeding could adversely affect Distributing other than by resulting in a liability for Distribution Taxes; and provided further, that (i) Controlled shall not settle any such Tax Proceeding without the prior consent of Distributing, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, if the proposed settlement would reasonably be expected to adversely affect Taxes of Distributing or any Distributing Affiliate for which Controlled would not be fully responsible hereunder, and (ii) Controlled shall (A) provide Distributing with a reasonable opportunity to participate in such Tax Proceeding at Distributing's sole cost and expense; (B) take reasonable steps to ensure Distributing is informed of any developments in the Tax Proceeding; and (C) provide Distributing with copies of any written material prior to submission to the Taxing Authority regarding the Distribution.
Section 10. Miscellaneous Provisions.
     10.01 . This Agreement shall become effective upon execution by the Parties hereto.
Effectiveness
     10.02 .
Cooperation and Exchange of Information
               (a) . Controlled and Distributing shall each cooperate fully (and each shall cause its respective affiliates to cooperate fully) with all reasonable requests from another Party for information and materials not otherwise available to the requesting Party in connection with the preparation and filing of Tax Returns, claims for refund, and Tax Proceedings concerning issues or other matters covered by this Agreement or in connection with the determination of a liability for Taxes or a right to a refund of Taxes. Such cooperation shall include:
Cooperation
                    (i) the retention until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, and the provision upon request, of copies of all Tax Returns, books, records (including information regarding ownership and Tax basis of property), documentation and other information relating to the Tax Returns, including accompanying schedules, related work papers, and documents relating to rulings or other determinations by Taxing Authorities;
                    (ii) the execution of any document that may be necessary or reasonably helpful in connection with any Tax Proceeding, or the filing of a Tax Return or refund claim by a member of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group, including certification, to the best of a Party's knowledge, of the accuracy and completeness of the information it has supplied;
                    (iii) the filing of any Tax Return in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and
                    (iv) the use of the Party's reasonable best efforts to obtain any documentation that may be necessary or reasonably helpful in connection with any of the foregoing.
Each Party shall make its employees and facilities available on a reasonable and mutually convenient basis in connection with the foregoing matters.
 
               (b) . Any Party that is in possession of documentation of Distributing (or any Distributing Affiliate) or Controlled (or any Controlled Affiliate) relating to the Transferred Businesses, including without limitation, books, records, Tax Returns and all supporting schedules and information relating thereto (the "Transferred Business Records") shall retain such Transferred Business Records for a period of five (5) years following the Distribution Date or, if later, the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations. Thereafter, any Party wishing to dispose of Transferred Business Records in its possession shall provide written notice to the other Party describing the documentation proposed to be destroyed or disposed of sixty (60) business days prior to taking such action. The other Party may arrange to take delivery of any or all of the documentation described in the notice at its expense during the succeeding sixty (60) day period. Any such documentation that the other Party does not arrange to take delivery of during the sixty (60) day period may be destroyed or disposed of.
Retention of Records
     10.03 . In the event that Distributing and Controlled disagree as to the amount or calculation of any payment to be made under this Agreement, or the interpretation or application of any provision under this Agreement, the Parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve such dispute. If such dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days following the commencement of the dispute, Distributing and Controlled shall jointly retain a nationally recognized law or accounting firm, which firm is independent of both Parties, to resolve the dispute (the "Independent Firm"). If Distributing and Controlled are unable to agree on an Independent Firm, each of Distributing and Controlled shall select an independent, nationally recognized law or accounting firm (the "Deciding Firms"), which Deciding Firms together shall select the Independent Firm. If the Deciding Firms are unable to agree on an Independent Firm, the Independent Firm shall be selected by lot from a list prepared by the Deciding Firms. The Independent Firm shall act as an arbitrator to resolve all points of disagreement and its decision shall be final and binding upon all Parties involved. Following the decision of the Independent Firm, Distributing and Controlled shall each take or cause to be taken any action necessary to implement the decision of the Independent Firm. The fees and expenses relating to the Independent Firm shall be borne equally by Distributing and Controlled, except that if the Independent Firm determines that the position advanced by either Party is frivolous, has not been asserted in good faith or is a position for which there is not substantial authority, 100% of the fees and expenses of the Independent Firm shall be borne by such Party. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the dispute resolution provisions set forth in this Section 10.03 shall not be applicable to any disagreement between the Parties relating to Distribution Taxes and any such dispute shall be settled in a court of law or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties.
Dispute Resolution
     10.04 . All notices and other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) a transmitter's confirmation of a receipt of a facsimile transmission (but only if followed by confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier the following business day or if delivered by hand the following business day), (b) confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier or when delivered by hand or (c) the expiration of three business days after the date mailed by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a Party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
 
If to Distributing, to the General Counsel of Distributing, with a copy to the Director of Taxes of Distributing, at:
Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue Suite 1200 Dallas, TX 75201 Telephone: (214) 303-3413 Fax: (214) 303-3853
with a copy (which shall not constitute effective notice) to:
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP 2445 M Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20037 Attn: Erika L. Robinson Telephone: (202) 663-6000 Fax: (202) 663-6363
If to Controlled or any Controlled Affiliate, to the General Counsel of Controlled, at:
TreeHouse Foods, Inc. 857-897 School Place P.O. Box 19057 Green Bay, Wisconsin 54307 Telephone: (920) 497-7131 Fax: (920) 497-4604
with a copy (which shall not constitute effective notice) to:
Winston & Strawn LLP 35 W. Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60601 Attn: Bruce A. Toth and Thomas P. Fitzgerald Telephone: (312) 558-5600 Fax: (312) 558-5700
Either Party may, by written notice to the other Parties, change the address or the Party to which any notice, request, instruction or other documents is to be delivered.
     10.05 .
Changes in Law
               (a) Any reference to a provision of the Code or a law of another jurisdiction shall include a reference to any applicable successor provision or law.
               (b) If, due to any change in applicable law or regulations or their interpretation by any court of law or other governing body having jurisdiction subsequent to the date of this Agreement, performance of any provision of this Agreement or any transaction
 
contemplated thereby shall become impracticable or impossible, the Parties hereto shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such provision.
     10.06 . Each Party shall hold and cause its directors, officers, employees, advisors and consultants to hold in strict confidence, unless compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process or, in the opinion of its counsel, by other requirements of law, all information (other than any such information relating solely to the business or affairs of such Party) concerning the other Parties hereto furnished it by such other Party or its representatives pursuant to this Agreement (except to the extent that such information can be shown to have been (1) in the public domain through no fault of such Party or (2) later lawfully acquired from other sources not under a duty of confidentiality by the Party to which it was furnished), and each Party shall not release or disclose such information to any other person, except its directors, officers, employees, auditors, attorneys, financial advisors, bankers and other consultants who shall be advised of and agree to be bound by the provisions of this Section 10.06. Each Party shall be deemed to have satisfied its obligation to hold confidential information concerning or supplied by the other Party if it exercises the same care as it takes to preserve confidentiality for its own similar information.
Confidentiality
     10.07 . This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit and detriment of any successor, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise, to any of the Parties hereto, to the same extent as if such successor had been an original Party.
Successors
     10.08 . Distributing shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any Distributing Affiliate, and Controlled shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any Controlled Affiliate.
Affiliates
     10.09 . Each of the Parties hereto hereby represents and warrants that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such Party, that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such Party and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Party does not contravene or conflict with any provision of law or of its charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding on such Party.
Authorization, Etc
     10.10 . This Agreement contains the entire agreement among the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior Tax sharing agreements between Distributing (or any Distributing Affiliate) and Controlled (or any Controlled Affiliate) and such prior Tax sharing agreements shall have no further force and effect. If, and to the extent, the provisions of this Agreement conflict with the Distribution Agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Entire Agreement
     10.11 .
Applicable Law; Jurisdiction
 
               (a) This agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the domestic laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.
               (b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY (i) AGREES TO BE SUBJECT TO, AND HEREBY CONSENTS AND SUBMITS TO, THE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE AND OF THE FEDERAL COURTS SITTING IN THE STATE OF DELAWARE, (ii) TO THE EXTENT SUCH PARTY IS NOT OTHERWISE SUBJECT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE STATE OF DELAWARE, HEREBY APPOINTS THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, AS SUCH PARTY'S AGENT IN THE STATE OF DELAWARE FOR ACCEPTANCE OF LEGAL PROCESS AND (iii) AGREES THAT SERVICE MADE ON ANY SUCH AGENT SET FORTH IN (ii) ABOVE SHALL HAVE THE SAME LEGAL FORCE AND EFFECT AS IF SERVED UPON SUCH PARTY PERSONALLY WITHIN THE STATE OF DELAWARE.
     10.12 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
     10.13 . If any term, provision, covenant, or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction (or an arbitrator or arbitration panel) to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated. In the event that any such term, provision, covenant or restriction is held to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the Parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternate means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such terms, provisions, covenant, or restriction.
Severability
     10.14 . This Agreement is solely for the benefit of (a) Distributing, Controlled and the Controlled Affiliates, and (b) the Distributing Affiliates, which are expressly intended to be third party beneficiaries hereunder. Except with respect to the third party beneficiary rights of the Distributing Affiliates, this Agreement should not be deemed to confer upon third parties any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other rights in excess of those existing without this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
     10.15 . No failure or delay on the part of a Party in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. No modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement nor consent to any departure by the Parties therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given.
Waivers, Etc
 
     10.16 . All payments to be made by any Party under this Agreement may be netted against payments due to such Party under this Agreement, but otherwise shall be made without setoff, counterclaim or withholding, all of which are hereby expressly waived.
Setoff
     10.17 . Controlled recognizes that any failure by it or any Controlled Affiliate to comply with its obligations under Section 4 of this Agreement could result in Distribution Taxes that would cause irreparable harm to Distributing, the Distributing Affiliates, and Distributing's stockholders. Accordingly, Distributing shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement, this being in addition to any other remedy to which Distributing is entitled at law or in equity.
Other Remedies
     10.18 . This Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented only by a written agreement signed by all of the Parties hereto.
Amendment and Modification
     10.19 In this Agreement, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Interpretation.
               (a) words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular;
               (b) reference to any Person includes such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Agreement;
               (c) reference to any gender includes the other gender;
               (d) the word "including" means "including but not limited to";
               (e) reference to any Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule means such Article or Section of, or any Exhibit or Schedule to, this Agreement, as the case may be, and references in any Section or definition to any clause means such clause of such Section or definition;
               (f) the words "herein," "hereunder," "hereof," "hereto" and words of similar import shall be deemed references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof;
               (g) reference to any agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and by this Agreement;
               (h) reference to any law (including statutes and ordinances) means such law (including all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) as amended, modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect at the time of determining compliance or applicability;
               (i) relative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including," "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including";
 
               (j) the titles to Articles and headings of Sections contained in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement; and
               (k) all references to dollar amounts herein shall be in respect of lawful currency of the United States.
     10.20 . Each of the Parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives all right to trial by jury in any litigation, claim, action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding, investigation or counterclaim (whether based in contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the actions of the Parties hereto in the negotiation, administration, performance and enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their authorized representatives as of the date first above written.
DEAN FOODS COMPANY
By: Name: Edward F. Fugger Title: Vice President  Corporate Development
/s/ Edward F. Fugger
TREEHOUSE FOODS, INC. on behalf of itself and the Controlled Affiliates
By: Name: Thomas E. O'Neill Title: Senior Vice President
/s/ Thomas E. O'Neill

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today completed the spin-off of its majority-owned subsidiary TreeHouse Foods, Inc. as an independent, publicly traded company. Immediately prior to the spin-off, Dean Foods transferred to TreeHouse the business currently conducted by its Specialty Foods Group segment in addition to its ,  and foodservice salad dressings businesses. The spin-off was effective as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 27, 2005.
DALLAS, June 27, 2005
Mocha Mix
Second Nature
Under the terms of the transaction, Dean Foods distributed to the holders of Dean Foods common stock one share of TreeHouse common stock for every five shares of Dean Foods common stock outstanding on June 20, 2005, the record date for the distribution. An information statement describing the new company, the procedures by which the distribution was effected and the risks of holding TreeHouse common stock was mailed to Dean Foods stockholders on or about June 20, 2005. A copy of the information statement is included with the registration statement on Form 10, as amended, filed by TreeHouse with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the transaction and available at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Holders of Dean Foods common stock on the record date will receive an account statement reflecting their ownership in TreeHouse, which initially will be in book-entry form. The account statement will include information about how to request a physical stock certificate. Stockholders who hold their shares through brokers or other nominees will have their shares of TreeHouse common stock credited to their accounts by their nominees or brokers.
"Regular way" trading for Dean Foods common stock, without the right to receive TreeHouse shares in the distribution, will begin on June 28, 2005 on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DF." "Regular way" trading for TreeHouse also will begin on June 28, 2005 on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "THS."
After the spin-off, the tax basis of outstanding Dean Foods shares will be allocated between the Dean Foods shares and the TreeHouse shares received in proportion to their relative fair market values. Dean Foods will provide shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers with information to enable them to compute their tax basis in their Dean Foods and TreeHouse shares, and with other information necessary to report their receipt of TreeHouse common stock on their 2005 federal income tax returns as tax-free.
Stockholders with inquiries should contact:
Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, TX 75201 Attention: Investor Relations (214) 303-3400


