FILE:DF/DF-8K-20051012171754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 .
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 25, 2005, we announced that we had selected Mr. Joseph E. Scalzo to serve as President of our WhiteWave Foods subsidiary. At that time, we announced that Mr. Scalzo, a former executive with The Gillette Company, was expected to join WhiteWave Foods after the completion of The Gillette Company's merger with Procter & Gamble. Mr. Scalzo began his tenure as President of WhiteWave Foods on October 11, 2005.
On October 7, 2005, we entered into an employment agreement, a Change in Control Agreement and a Proprietary Information, Inventions and Non-Compete Agreement with Mr. Scalzo, all with the terms described in the Current Report on Form 8-K that we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 30, 2005, which Current Report is incorporated herein by reference. We intend to file the agreements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as required.
In addition, on October 11, 2005, we awarded to Mr. Scalzo an option to purchase 245,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $37.98 per share, which was the closing price of our common stock on October 10, 2005. The options will vest in three equal installments over a period of three years, beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant, and will expire on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. The option award was approved by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors without shareholder approval as an "inducement grant," as such term is defined by the New York Stock Exchange.
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
To the extent required by Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, the information contained in or incorporated by reference into Item 1.01 of this Current Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


