FILE:DF/DF-8K-20061107081559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the third quarter of 2006, issued November 7, 2006. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
     DALLAS, November 7, 2006  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company earned $0.54 per diluted share from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, as compared to $0.40 per diluted share from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. On an adjusted basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share were $0.56, an increase of 19% from $0.47 in last year's third quarter.
     Consolidated operating income from continuing operations in the third quarter totaled $169 million, an increase of 22% from $138 million in the third quarter of 2005. Adjusted third quarter operating income totaled $174 million, an increase of 12% from $156 million in the third quarter of 2005. The adjusted third quarter operating margin was 6.92%, up 85 basis points versus the third quarter last year.
     Net income from continuing operations for the third quarter totaled $74 million, compared with $62 million in the prior year third quarter. Adjusted net income for the third quarter was $78 million, 6% higher than the $73 million reported in the third quarter of 2005.
     Net sales for the third quarter totaled $2.5 billion, a decrease of 2% from the third quarter of 2005, due to the pass through of lower raw dairy input costs, partially offset by fluid milk volume growth at the Dairy Group and continued sales growth at WhiteWave Foods.
     "I am very pleased with the operating profit and earnings per share growth in the third quarter," said Gregg Engles, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our portfolio of businesses continues to perform well, with especially robust results from the Dairy Group this quarter. WhiteWave Foods posted solid sales growth, while making considerable progress against its supply chain and information technology initiatives. As we look forward to 2007, we are confident that we are well positioned for sustained double-digit EPS growth."
 
DAIRY GROUP
     Dairy Group net sales were $2.2 billion in the third quarter of 2006, down 3% from the prior year third quarter. The sales decrease was due to the pass through of lower dairy input costs that were partially offset by a 1.3% increase in fluid milk volumes. The third quarter Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, averaged $11.05 per hundred-weight, a 21% decrease from the same period in 2005. Class II butterfat prices averaged $1.32 per pound in the third quarter, 28% lower than the third quarter of 2005.
     Dairy Group segment operating income in the third quarter was $173 million, an increase of 10% year-over-year. Dairy Group operating margin increased 94 basis points to 7.83% of sales. Segment operating income growth was driven by increased fluid milk volumes and operational efficiencies resulting from ongoing plant rationalization activities and continuing productivity initiatives. In addition, there were a number of specific items in the quarter, including a favorable resolution of a dispute with a supplier, which on balance added approximately 3 percentage points to Dairy Group operating income growth in the quarter, or approximately 20 basis points of operating margin.
WHITEWAVE FOODS
     WhiteWave Foods reported third quarter net sales of $314 million, a 5% increase compared to third quarter 2005 net sales of $299 million. The sales increase was driven by strong sales growth in the core branded portfolio, partly offset by the SKU reduction activities undertaken late in 2005 and slower growth in non-core products.
     WhiteWave's core products continued to post double-digit growth in the third quarter. Net sales of Horizon Organic milk increased in the high teens in the quarter as the category continues to expand. Both Silk soymilk and Land O' Lakes fluid and cultured products grew in the low double digits and International Delight coffee creamers grew in the low single digits in the third quarter.
     Consistent with previous expectations, segment operating income in the third quarter for WhiteWave Foods was $36.5 million, with operating margins of 11.6%, compared to $36.2 million, and operating margins of 12.1% in the prior year third quarter. WhiteWave operating margin decreased due to higher organic milk, sugar and fuel costs, SAP transition costs, and higher overall investments in information technology and support infrastructure. These increased costs were partially offset by supply chain efficiencies related to WhiteWave's ongoing business consolidation and integration project.
 
CORPORATE
     Corporate expense was $35 million in the third quarter of 2006, 5% lower than in the same period of the prior year. The decrease in corporate expense is primarily related to lower share-based compensation expense.
     During the quarter, the Company reduced outstanding debt by $210 million, including over $96 million in proceeds from the sale of Leche Celta. Long-term debt at September 30, 2006 was under $3.2 billion, including $485 million due within one year that is reported as part of current liabilities. Interest expense during the quarter was $48 million, 27% higher than in the third quarter a year ago, due to higher average debt balances and the current interest rate environment.
     Through October 31, 2006, the Company has repurchased 4.5 million shares of its stock in 2006. As a result of its ongoing share repurchase program, diluted shares outstanding were 16 million shares lower in the third quarter of 2006 than in the same period a year earlier.
     Based on management's review of historical stock option grants, certain administrative errors have been identified relating to certain stock option grants in 1997 and 2000. As the aggregate differences were not deemed material, the Company will not restate its historical results and the full impact of the pretax cumulative non-cash charge of approximately $500,000 was recognized in the third quarter, 2006.
OUTLOOK FOR THE REMAINDER OF 2006 AND FULL YEAR 2007
     "Looking to the end of this year, we believe we will finish the year with earnings per share growth of 15%-16% and are comfortable with estimates for full year 2006 adjusted earnings per share between $2.10 and $2.12," said Engles. "Looking forward to 2007, we expect to enter the new year with considerable momentum and are comfortable with expectations for 11%-13% growth in adjusted earnings per share."
RESULTS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006
     The Company's net sales from continuing operations decreased slightly to $7.5 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The decrease was due to the pass through of lower raw dairy commodity costs which were offset by sales growth at WhiteWave Foods and volume growth in the Dairy Group. Net income from continuing operations for the first nine months of the year totaled $204 million, compared with $187 million in the first nine months of 2005. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 totaled $1.45, compared to $1.20 for the first nine months of 2005.
 
     On an adjusted basis (as defined below), net income for the nine months totaled $212 million, compared to $205 million in the same period of 2005. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first nine months of 2006 totaled $1.51 compared with $1.32 in the first nine months of 2005.
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not recorded in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP numbers may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation table between earnings per share for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 calculated according to GAAP and on an adjusted basis is attached.
     For the quarter ended September 30, 2006, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing and reorganization charges:
     For the quarter ended September 30, 2005, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing and reorganization charges:
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing, reorganization and non-recurring charges:
 
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing, reorganization and non-recurring charges:
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
     A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:00 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcasts" section of the Company site at www.deanfoods.com.
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
     Dean Foods Company is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Its Dairy Group division is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods subsidiary markets and sells a variety of well-known dairy and dairy-related products, such as soymilk, milk and other dairy products and coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' brand is the largest organic milk brand and third largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.
Silk
Horizon Organic
International Delight
Rachel's Organic
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
     Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material costs, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


