FILE:DF/DF-8K-20060503082900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the first quarter of 2006, issued May 3, 2006. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     DALLAS, May 3, 2006  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company earned $0.37 per diluted share from continuing operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, compared with $0.33 per diluted share from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2005. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter totaled $52.8 million, compared with $51.1 million in the prior year first quarter.
     On an adjusted basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share were $0.40, an increase of 8% from $0.37 in last year's first quarter. Adjusted net income for the first quarter was $56.3 million, versus $56.9 million reported in the first quarter of 2005.
     "Both the Dairy Group and WhiteWave Foods performed well in the first quarter," said Gregg Engles, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our Dairy Group again outpaced the industry, growing fluid milk volumes by 3.4%. Sales of our key brands at WhiteWave Foods continue to grow at a robust pace, and our supply chain initiatives are driving significant operational improvements."
     Net sales for the first quarter totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of 1% over the first quarter of 2005, due to strong sales growth at the Dairy Group and WhiteWave Foods, partially offset by the pass through of lower dairy commodity costs.
     Consolidated operating income from continuing operations in the first quarter totaled $137.0 million versus $125.9 million in the first quarter of 2005. Operating margin for the first quarter was 5.3%, as compared to 4.9% in the first quarter of the prior year. Adjusted first quarter operating income totaled $142.9 million, an
 
increase of 5.5% from $135.4 million in the first quarter of 2005. The adjusted first quarter operating margin was 5.5%, up 23 basis points versus the first quarter last year.
     Long-term debt at March 31, 2006 was approximately $3.5 billion, including $170 million due within one year that is reported as part of current liabilities. As of March 31, 2006, approximately $552 million of the Company's senior credit facility was available for future borrowings.
SEGMENT RESULTS
     Dairy Group net sales increased $12 million to $2.20 billion in the first quarter of 2006. The sales increase was due to a 3.4% increase in fluid milk volumes that was partially offset by the pass through of lower dairy commodity costs to our customers. The first quarter Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, averaged $13.08 per hundred-weight, a 14% decrease from the same period in 2005. Class II butterfat prices averaged $1.37 per pound in the first quarter, 22% lower than the first quarter of 2005.
     Dairy Group segment operating income in the first quarter was $152.7 million, an increase of 3% year-over-year. Dairy Group operating margin increased 15 basis points to 6.9% of sales. Segment operating income growth was driven by increased fluid milk volumes and operational efficiencies resulting from ongoing plant rationalization activities.
     WhiteWave Foods reported first quarter net sales of $307 million, an 8% increase compared to first quarter 2005 net sales of $285 million. The increase was driven by strong sales growth in the branded portfolio, particularly in our Silk, Horizon Organic, and International Delight brands.
     Segment operating income in the first quarter for WhiteWave Foods was $26.1 million, with operating margins of 8.5%, compared to $12.9 million, and operating margins of 4.5% in the prior year first quarter. Segment operating income increased due to strong sales growth and increased operational efficiencies that were partially offset by higher organic milk, sugar and energy costs.
     Corporate and Other sales were $83 million in the first quarter of 2006, 5% lower than in the same period of the prior year. Corporate and Other operating loss was $36.0 million, $10 million higher than the first quarter of 2005. The increase in operating loss is due to increased corporate expenses related to higher employee benefit and retirement costs and lower operating income contribution from Leche Celta.
RECENT EVENTS
 
OUTLOOK FOR THE REMAINDER OF 2006
     "Although rising fuel prices are a concern, volume trends are strong in the Dairy Group and dairy commodity prices are trending favorably. At WhiteWave Foods, we expect continued strong sales trends throughout the year. However, commodity costs in organic milk, energy, and sugar have increased," said Engles. "Balancing the benefits of a favorable dairy commodity environment against increased commodity costs throughout much of our WhiteWave Foods business, we are leaving our full year guidance unchanged with expectations for $2.10 to $2.15 earnings per share. For the second quarter, we are expecting earnings of approximately $0.52 to $0.54 per share."
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not recorded in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for
 
investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP numbers may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation table between earnings per share for the three month periods ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2005 calculated according to GAAP and on an adjusted basis is attached.
          For the quarter ended March 31, 2006, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing, reorganization and non-recurring charges:
          For the quarter ended March 31, 2005, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing, reorganization, and non-recurring charges:
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
     A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:00 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcasts" section of the Company site at .
www.deanfoods.com
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
     Dean Foods Company is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Its Dairy Group division is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods subsidiary markets and sells a variety of well-known dairy and dairy-related products, such as soymilk, milk and other dairy products and coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom. Dean Foods is also one of the largest processors and distributors of fluid milk in Spain and Portugal.
Silk
Horizon Organic
International Delight
Rachel's Organic
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth
 
in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material costs, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 


