FILE:DF/DF-8K-20070302093016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On March 1, 2007, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") entered into a commitment letter with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("JPMorgan"), Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS"), Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC ("Wachovia"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JPMCB"), Bank of America, N.A. ("BOA") and Wachovia Bank, National Association ("WB") with respect to a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). Pursuant to the commitment letter (i) JPMorgan, BAS and Wachovia will act as joint lead arrangers for the Credit Facility, (ii) JPMCB, BOA and WB have committed to provide the entire principal amount of the Credit Facility and (iii) JPMCB will serve as the administrative agent, BOA will serve as the syndication agent and WB will serve as a documentation agent for the Credit Facility. In addition, JPMorgan and BAS will act as joint bookrunners for the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility is anticipated to consist of (i) a $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility, (ii) a $1.5 billion five-year term loan and (iii) a $1.8 billion seven-year term loan. The Credit Facility is expected to be guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries other than the Company's receivables securitization subsidiaries. The commitment letter provides, among other things, that the closing of the Credit Facility is subject to conditions customary to similar transactions. The Credit Facility is expected to close in April 2007 simultaneously with the payment of a special cash dividend to the Company's shareholders of $15 per share, which is described in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Upon completion, the Credit Facility will replace the Company's current credit facility.
     A copy of the commitment letter is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On March 2, 2007, the Company announced plans to pay a special cash dividend, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
March 1, 2007
Dean Foods Company 2515 McKinney Avenue, Suite 1200 Dallas, Texas 75201
Attention: Tim Smith, Vice President and Treasurer
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     You (the "") have requested that (i) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (""), Banc of America Securities LLC ("") and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (collectively with JPMorgan and BAS, the "") agree to structure, arrange and syndicate senior secured credit facilities to the Borrower in an initial aggregate principal amount of $4,800,000,000 (the "") consisting of a $1,500,000,000 revolving credit facility, a $1,500,000,000 tranche A term loan facility and a $1,800,000,000 tranche B term loan facility, (ii) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (""), Bank of America, N.A. ("") and Wachovia Bank, National Association (""; collectively with JPMCB and BOA, the "") commit to provide the entire principal amount of the Facilities and (iii) JPMCB agree to serve as the administrative agent, BOA agree to serve as the syndication agent and WB agree to serve as a documentation agent, in each case for the Facilities. We understand a portion of the proceeds of the Facilities shall be used to finance a special dividend to the Borrower's shareholders at $15 per share of the Borrower's common stock and otherwise in an amount of approximately $2,000,000,000 in the aggregate.
Borrower
JPMorgan
BAS
Lead Arrangers
Facilities
JPMCB
BOA
WB
Commitment Parties
     The Lead Arrangers are pleased to advise you that they are willing to act as joint lead arrangers for the Facilities, and JPMorgan and BAS are pleased to advise you that they are willing to act as joint bookrunners for the Facilities (JPMorgan and BAS acting in such capacities, the "").
Bookrunners
     Furthermore, (a) each of JPMCB and BOA is pleased to advise you of its several commitment to provide 37.5% of the Facilities (75% of the Facilities in the aggregate) and (b) WB is pleased to advise you of its several commitment to provide 25% of the Facilities, in each case upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth or referred to in this commitment letter (the "") and in the Summary of Terms and Conditions attached hereto as (the "").
Commitment Letter
Exhibit A
Term Sheet
     It is agreed that JPMCB will act as the sole and exclusive Administrative Agent, that BOA will act as the sole and exclusive Syndication Agent, that WB will act as a documentation agent, that the Lead Arrangers will act as joint lead arrangers for the Facilities and that JPMorgan and BAS will act as joint bookrunners for the Facilities. You agree that no other agents, co-agents or arrangers will be appointed, no other titles will be awarded and no compensation (other than that expressly contemplated by the Term Sheet and the Fee Letters referred to below) will be paid in connection with the Facilities unless you and the Bookrunners shall so agree.
 
     The Bookrunners intend to syndicate the Facilities (including, in the Bookrunners' discretion, all or part of each Commitment Party's commitment hereunder) to a syndicate of financial institutions identified by the Bookrunners in consultation with you (the ""). The Bookrunners intend to commence syndication efforts promptly upon the execution of this Commitment Letter, and you agree actively to assist us in completing a syndication mutually satisfactory to you and us. Such assistance shall include (a) your using commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the syndication efforts benefit materially from your existing lending relationships, (b) direct contact between senior management and advisors of the Borrower and the proposed Lenders, (c) the hosting, with us, of one or more meetings of prospective Lenders and (d) as set forth in the next paragraph, assistance in the preparation of materials to be used in connection with the syndication (collectively with the Term Sheet, the "").
Lenders
Information Materials
     You will assist us in preparing Information Materials, including a Confidential Information Memorandum and lender slides, for distribution to prospective Lenders. If requested, you also will assist us in preparing an additional version of the Information Materials (the "") to be used by prospective Lenders' public-side employees and representatives ("") who do not wish to receive material non-public information (within the meaning of United States federal securities laws) with respect to the Borrower, its affiliates and any of its securities ("") and who may be engaged in investment and other market related activities with respect to the Borrower's or its affiliates' securities or loans. Before distribution of any Information Materials, you agree to execute and deliver to us (i) a letter in which you authorize distribution of the Information Materials to a prospective Lender's employees willing to receive MNPI ("") subject to such Private-Siders agreeing to keep such Information Materials confidential in accordance with the Information Materials and (ii) from and after the public announcement by the Borrower of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter, a separate letter in which you authorize distribution of the Public-Side Version to Public-Siders and represent that no MNPI is contained therein. You also acknowledge that Public-Siders affiliated with the Lead Arrangers consisting of publishing debt analysts may participate in any meetings or telephone conference calls held pursuant to clause (c) of the immediately previous paragraph; provided that such analysts shall not publish any information obtained from such meetings or calls (i) until the syndication of the Facilities has been completed upon the making of allocations by the Bookrunners and the Bookrunners freeing the Facilities to trade or (ii) in violation of any confidentiality agreement between you and the Lead Arrangers.
Public-Side Version
Public-Siders
MNPI
Private-Siders
     The Borrower agrees that the following documents may be distributed to both Private-Siders and Public-Siders, unless the Borrower advises the Bookrunners in writing (including by email) within a reasonable time prior to their intended distribution that such materials should only be distributed to Private-Siders: (a) administrative materials prepared by the Bookrunners for prospective Lenders (such as a lender meeting invitation, bank allocation, if any, and funding and closing memoranda) and (b) notification of changes in the Facilities' terms. If you advise us that any of the foregoing should be distributed only to Private-Siders, then Public-Siders will not receive such materials without further discussions with you.
     The Borrower hereby authorizes the Bookrunners to distribute drafts of definitive documentation with respect to the Facilities to Private-Siders and Public-Siders.
     As a Bookrunner, each of JPMorgan and BAS will manage all aspects of the syndication in consultation with the Borrower, including decisions as to the selection of institutions to be approached and when they will be approached, when their commitments will be accepted, which institutions will participate, the allocations of the commitments among the Lenders and the amount and distribution of fees among the Lenders. In acting as a Bookrunner, neither JPMorgan nor BAS will have any responsibility other than to arrange the syndication as set forth herein and shall in no event be subject to
 
any fiduciary or other implied duties. Additionally, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that, as Lead Arrangers, no Lead Arranger is advising the Borrower as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Borrower shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and no Lead Arranger shall have any responsibility or liability to the Borrower with respect thereto. Any review by any Lead Arranger of the Borrower, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of such Lead Arranger and its affiliated Commitment Party and shall not be on behalf of the Borrower.
     To assist the Bookrunners in their syndication efforts, you agree promptly to prepare and provide to the Lead Arrangers and the Commitment Parties all information with respect to the Borrower and the transactions contemplated hereby, including all financial information and projections (the ""), as the Lead Arrangers and the Commitment Parties may reasonably request in connection with the arrangement and syndication of the Facilities. You hereby represent and covenant that (a) all information relating to the Borrower, its subsidiaries and their operations and financial condition, other than the Projections (the "") that has been or will be made available to the Lead Arrangers and the Commitment Parties by you or any of your representatives is or will be, when furnished, taken in combination with the Borrower's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, complete and correct in all material respects and does not or will not, when furnished, taken in combination with the Borrower's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements are made and (b) the Projections that have been or will be made available to any of the Lead Arrangers or the Commitment Parties by you or any of your representatives have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon reasonable assumptions at the time made. You understand that in arranging and syndicating the Facilities, the Lead Arrangers and the Commitment Parties may use and rely on the Information and Projections without independent verification thereof. Before distribution of any Information, you agree to execute and deliver to us a letter in which you authorize distribution of the Information to a prospective Lender and its employees
Projections
Information
.
     As consideration for each Commitment Party's commitment hereunder and each Lead Arranger's agreement to perform the services described herein, you agree to pay to each Commitment Party and each Lead Arranger the nonrefundable fees set forth in to the Term Sheet and in the Fee Letters dated the date hereof and delivered herewith (the "").
Annex I
Fee Letters
     Each Commitment Party's commitment hereunder and each Lead Arranger's agreement to perform the services described herein are subject to (a) there not occurring or becoming known to us, since December 31, 2006, any material adverse condition or material adverse change in or affecting the business, operations, property, or financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (a ""), (b) our not becoming aware after the date hereof of any information or other matter affecting the Borrower or the transactions contemplated hereby which is inconsistent with any such information or other matter disclosed to us by the Borrower prior to the date hereof, which inconsistency represents a Material Adverse Change, (c) our satisfaction that prior to and during the syndication of the Facilities there shall be no competing offering, placement or arrangement of any debt securities or bank financing by or on behalf of the Borrower or any subsidiary thereof, (d) the negotiation, execution and delivery on or before April 15, 2007 of Credit Documentation (as defined in the Term Sheet) reasonably satisfactory to the Lead Arrangers and the Commitment Parties, (e) the Bookrunners being allotted at least 21 days after the lender meeting with the proposed Lenders to complete the syndication of the Facilities and the lender meeting shall have occurred no earlier than four (4) business days of the public announcement by the Borrower of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter and (f) the other conditions set forth or referred to in the Term Sheet.
Material Adverse Change
 
     You agree (a) to indemnify and hold harmless each Commitment Party, each Lead Arranger and their respective affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, and agents (each, an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities to which any such indemnified person may become subject arising out of or in connection with this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters, the Facilities, the use of the proceeds thereof or any related transaction or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, regardless of whether any indemnified person is a party thereto, and to reimburse each indemnified person upon demand for any legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating or defending any of the foregoing, that the foregoing indemnity will not, as to any indemnified person, apply to losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses to the extent (i) they are found by a judgment of a court to arise from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such indemnified person or (ii) they arise from a breach of the obligations of such indemnified person under this Commitment Letter, and (b) to reimburse the Bookrunners and their affiliates upon presentation of a statement in reasonable detail for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including due diligence expenses, syndication expenses, electronic distribution expenses, travel expenses, and reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent) incurred in connection with the Facilities and any related documentation (including this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet, the Fee Letters and the definitive financing documentation) or the administration, amendment, modification or waiver thereof. No indemnified person shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of Information or other materials obtained through electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission systems or for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages in connection with the Facilities.
indemnified person
provided
     This Commitment Letter shall not be assignable (a) by you without the prior written consent of each Commitment Party and each Lead Arranger or (b) by any Commitment Party or Lead Arranger without our prior written consent (and any purported assignment by any party without such consent shall be null and void), is intended to be solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any rights in favor of, any person other than the parties hereto. This Commitment Letter may not be amended or waived except by an instrument in writing signed by you, each Commitment Party and each Lead Arranger. This Commitment Letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. This Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters are the only agreements that have been entered into among us with respect to the Facilities and set forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect thereto.
     This Commitment Letter shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York. Each party hereto consents to the nonexclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in the City of New York. Each party hereto irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, (a) any right it may have to a trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet, the Fee Letters or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby (whether based on contract, tort or any other theory) and (b) any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such legal proceeding in the state or federal courts located in the City of New York. Each of the Borrower, each Commitment Party and each Lead Arranger irrevocably agrees to waive trial by jury in any suit, action, proceeding, claim or counterclaim brought by or on behalf of any party related to or arising out of the transactions contemplated hereby, this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet or the Fee Letters or the performance of services hereunder.
     This Commitment Letter is delivered to you on the understanding that neither this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet or the Fee Letters nor any of their terms or substance shall be disclosed, directly or indirectly, to any other person without the prior written consent of the Lead Arrangers except (a) to your officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (including attorneys and accountants) who are
 
involved in the consideration of this matter, (b) as may be requested or required in a judicial or administrative proceeding or as otherwise required by law (in which case you agree to inform us promptly thereof) or (c) other than in the case of the Fee Letters, in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other applicable regulatory authorities and stock exchanges.
     You acknowledge that each Commitment Party, each Lead Arranger and their respective affiliates may be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services (including financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have conflicting interests regarding the transactions described herein and otherwise. None of the Commitment Parties and the Lead Arrangers will use confidential information obtained from you by virtue of the transactions contemplated by this letter or their other relationships with you in connection with the performance by the Commitment Parties and the Lead Arrangers of services for other companies, and none of the Commitment Parties and the Lead Arrangers will furnish any such information to other companies. You also acknowledge that none of the Commitment Parties and the Lead Arrangers have any obligation to use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this letter, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained from other companies.
     The compensation, reimbursement, indemnification and confidentiality provisions contained herein and in the Fee Letters shall remain in full force and effect regardless of whether definitive financing documentation shall be executed and delivered and notwithstanding the termination of this Commitment Letter or either Commitment Party's commitment hereunder.
     If the foregoing correctly sets forth our agreement, please indicate your acceptance of the terms hereof and of the Term Sheet and the Fee Letters by returning to us executed counterparts hereof and of the applicable Fee Letter not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 1, 2007. Each Commitment Party's commitment and each Lead Arranger's agreements herein will expire at such time in the event the relevant Commitment Party has not received such executed counterparts in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence.
 
     The Commitment Parties and the Lead Arrangers are pleased to have been given the opportunity to assist you in connection with this important financing.
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
DALLAS, March 2, 2007 Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced plans to return $15.00 per share to shareholders through a one-time special cash dividend totaling approximately $2 billion. The special dividend will be financed by a recapitalization of the Company's balance sheet through $4.8 billion in new senior secured credit facilities.
"Dean Foods is an organization with strong momentum as reflected in our 2006 results and positive outlook for 2007," said Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Over the past several years we've consolidated the industry and developed a leading market position through significant strategic acquisitions and investments in building out our branded portfolio. With this platform in place, we are now entering the next phase of our evolution. Over the next few years, we will be focused primarily on leveraging our scale to drive internal growth through maximizing productivity and efficiencies across our business."
Engles continued, "Given our internal focus, our strong cash flows, and the incredible liquidity and flexibility of today's debt capital markets, the appropriate finance decision for Dean Foods today is to increase our exposure to the debt markets and return equity capital to shareholders, while enabling them to continue to participate in the Company's future performance and growth."
The special dividend declared by Dean Foods' Board of Directors is payable on April 2, 2007, to shareholders of record as of March 27, 2007. The dividend is subject to the completion of the Company's new senior secured credit facilities. Dean Foods common stock will start trading on an ex-dividend basis beginning on April 3, 2007, the day after the payment date, in accordance with NYSE rules. Shareholders who sell their shares
 
prior to or on the payment date of April 2, 2007 will also be selling their right to receive the special cash dividend. Shareholders are advised to contact their financial advisor before selling their shares.
The total aggregate size of the dividend will depend upon the number of shares outstanding on the March 27, 2007 record date. The Company will distribute $15.00 per share to shareholders as of the record date. As of February 23, 2007, Dean Foods had 128.95 million shares outstanding, which would result in a total dividend of $1.93 billion.
"Given our financial and business characteristics, Dean Foods is ideally positioned to take advantage of current attractive credit market conditions to recapitalize our balance sheet and lower our total cost of capital," said Jack Callahan, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "After a thorough analysis, we have targeted an initial leverage level that we believe is a prudent and efficient use of our balance sheet while preserving flexibility to meet our capital needs and growth objectives, including pursuing highly compelling tuck-in acquisitions."
For U.S. federal income tax purposes, shareholders will receive a Form 1099-DIV in early 2008 to notify them of the division between the dividend and non-dividend portions of the special dividend. The process of determining these amounts, which entails a comprehensive review and analysis of the Company's history, is well underway. Shareholders are encouraged to consult with their own tax and financial advisors regarding the implications of this special dividend.
The $4.8 billion fully underwritten financing package is being arranged by JPMorgan Securities, Bank of America Securities LLC, and Wachovia Capital Markets. Completion of the facility, which will replace the Company's current facility, is subject to customary closing conditions. The new facility is currently planned to consist of a combination of a $1.5 billion 5-year senior secured revolving credit facility, a $1.5 billion 5-year senior secured term loan A, and a $1.8 billion 7-year senior secured term loan B. The Company will also be replacing its existing receivables facility with a new secured $500 million facility. The Company's publicly traded notes will remain outstanding without modification.
As previously announced, on November 29, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program of up to $300 million, of which approximately $220 million remains. As a result of the recapitalization and one-time cash dividend distribution, the Company does not anticipate making additional stock repurchases in the near term.
Banc of America Securities LLC is acting as financial advisor to Dean Foods in this transaction.
Forward Outlook
For the first quarter, which will conclude before the recapitalization becomes effective, we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share of between $0.44 and $0.46," said
"
 
Callahan. "For the full year 2007, we continue to expect operating profit growth of around 7%, consistent with our previous guidance. However, with the increase in interest expense we are taking on for the remainder of the year, we now expect full year adjusted earnings of between $1.72 and $1.78 per share for 2007, depending, in part, on the finalization of the new capital structure." The adjustments to the earnings per share calculation exclude the net impact of facility closing costs, reorganizations, non-recurring charges and discontinued operations.
Conference Call & Webcast
The Company will be conducting a conference call today at 9.00 a.m. ET to discuss the details of the special cash dividend and recapitalization. To access the call, please dial (800) 289-0569 (toll free) or (913) 981-5542 (international). You may access the live webcast by visiting the "Webcasts" section of the Company site at http://www.deanfoods.com.
About Dean Foods
Dean Foods Company is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Its Dairy Group division is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods subsidiary markets and sells a variety of well-known dairy and dairy-related products, such as Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products and International Delight coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' Rachel's Organic brand is the largest organic milk brand and third largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, (1) projected sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share, (2) our plans to pay the special dividend, (3) the estimated amount of the total size of the special dividend, and (4) our plans to complete and the final terms of, the new credit facility. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material costs, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. Our ability to pay the special dividend will depend upon our successful completion of the new credit facility, and the total amount of the dividend will depend upon the actual number of shares outstanding on the record date. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.


