FILE:DF/DF-8K-20070831160540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On August 29, 2007, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") issued a press release, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1, announcing that Mr. Alan Bernon, President of the Company's Dairy Group, will be leaving his position effective September 1, 2007. Mr. Bernon will continue to serve as a member of the Company's Board of Directors.
     Pursuant to a letter agreement dated September 1, 2005 between Mr. Bernon and the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005) and the Company's Executive Severance Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006), Mr. Bernon will be entitled to the following payments and benefits:
All unvested stock options and restricted stock units held by Mr. Bernon will vest upon termination. The Company will also pay for Mr. Bernon's relocation costs to relocate from Dallas.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     Press Release of Dean Foods Company, dated August 29, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
DALLAS, Aug. 29, 2007/PRNewswire  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) announced today that Alan Bernon, President of the Company's Dairy Group, will be leaving his position September 1. He will continue in his role as a Director of the Company.
"During his tenure as President of the Dairy Group, Alan led the critical first stages of the productivity improvement project in our dairy operations and added valuable capabilities to the Dairy Group leadership team." said Gregg Engles, Chairman and CEO. "As a result of Alan's leadership, we are well positioned to undertake the next stage in the evolution of our Company and continue to drive operational improvements throughout our business."
Added Engles, "We are very grateful to Alan for his many contributions and his commitment and dedication to our Company over the past ten years, both as a member of our management team and as a member of our Board of Directors.
Going forward, Mr. Engles will assume direct responsibility for leadership of the Dairy Group. "This structure will allow me to be closer to our operations and to the initiatives that are crucial to the future success of the organization. I look forward to working closely with our Dairy Group leadership team as we continue to drive these important strategic initiatives," said Engles.
About Dean Foods
Dean Foods Company is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Its Dairy Group division is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods subsidiary markets and sells a variety of well-known dairy and dairy-related products, such as Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products and International Delight coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' Rachel's Organic brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.


