FILE:DF/DF-8K-20080213085156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the fourth quarter and full year of 2007, issued February 13, 2008. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     DALLAS, February 13, 2008  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company earned $0.24 per diluted share from continuing operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, compared with $0.56 per diluted share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2006. Net income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter totaled $32.6 million, compared with $76.3 million in the prior year's fourth quarter.
     On an adjusted basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share were $0.27, compared to $0.61 in the prior year's fourth quarter. Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $37.1 million, compared to adjusted net income of $83.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. The decrease in adjusted net income and earnings per share is related to the increase in interest expense as a result of the recapitalization and the special cash dividend of $15 per share that was paid in April 2007 and a decline in operating results in the quarter. Interest expense in the quarter totaled $88.8 million, compared to $50.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
     Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $0.95, compared to $2.01 for the full year 2006. Net income from continuing operations for the full year 2007 totaled $130.5 million, compared with $280.3 million in 2006.
     Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the full year 2007 totaled $1.20, compared to $2.12 in 2006. On an adjusted basis (as defined below), net income from continuing operations for the full year 2007 totaled $164.5 million, compared to $295.7 million in 2006. The decline in full year adjusted net income and diluted earnings per share for the year is attributable to the 64.3% increase in interest expense related to the recapitalization in connection with the special cash dividend of $15 per share that was paid in April 2007 and the 12.7% decline in consolidated operating income.
     Net sales for the fourth quarter totaled $3.2 billion, an increase of 24.6% from net sales in the fourth quarter of 2006. For the full year ended December 31, 2007, net sales totaled $11.8 billion, an increase of 17.1% from net sales in the previous year. Net sales increases in both the quarter and full year were due to the pass-through of higher dairy commodity costs and strong sales growth at WhiteWave Foods.
     Consolidated operating income in the fourth quarter totaled $142.5 million, a decrease of 17.4% from $172.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Adjusted fourth quarter consolidated operating income totaled $149.2 million, a decrease of 19.3% from $184.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
          For the full year, consolidated operating income declined 14.9% to $553.6 million from $650.7 million in 2006. On an adjusted basis, consolidated operating income declined 12.7% for the year, to $589.7 million from $675.8 million in 2006.
     "2007 was the most challenging year in the history of Dean. We were faced with steeply rising and record high dairy commodity costs in our Dairy Group operations. At the same time, WhiteWave Foods was challenged by a severe oversupply of organic milk that drove down realized prices and increased competitive intensity in the industry," commented Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "However, while 2007 was a difficult year operationally, these near-term challenges did not slow our progress toward transforming the Company into a stronger long-term competitor. In 2007, we laid much of the groundwork that we will build on as we transform the business to drive productivity and increase efficiency in the years to come."
 
DAIRY GROUP
     Dairy Group net sales for the fourth quarter were $2.8 billion, a 26.4% increase from $2.2 billion in net sales for the fourth quarter of 2006. The sales increase was due primarily to the pass-through of higher overall dairy commodity costs to customers. The fourth quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, averaged $21.03 per hundred-weight, a 69% increase from the same period in 2006 and just 2% lower than all time high levels reached in the third quarter of 2007. Class II butterfat prices averaged $1.42 per pound in the fourth quarter, 2% higher than the fourth quarter of 2006.
     Dairy Group segment operating income in the fourth quarter was $150.9 million, compared to $173.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, as the impact of the pass-through of high dairy commodity costs and other items such as shrink, lower proceeds from excess cream sales, higher fuel costs and consumer mix shift toward private label products continued to pressure results.
     For the full year 2007, Dairy Group net sales were $10.4 billion, an increase of 18.2% from 2006 levels due to the pass-through of higher dairy commodity costs to customers. Full year segment operating income for the Dairy Group totaled $624.5 million, 8.8% below 2006 results as steeply rising and record high dairy commodity costs and cost friction items such as shrink, lower proceeds from excess cream sales, and consumer mix shift toward private label products pressured results in the second through fourth quarters of the year.
WHITEWAVE FOODS
     WhiteWave Foods segment reported fourth quarter net sales of $388.4 million, 12.5% higher than fourth quarter 2006 net sales of $345.1 million. Sales growth was strong across the entire branded portfolio with net sales of milk increasing over 20% due to volume growth of nearly 40% that was driven by increased promotional activity and lower average prices. and sales both increased in the low double digits and sales grew in the mid-teens over the same period last year, driven by high-single digit volume growth and commodity based price increases.
Horizon Organic
International Delight
Silk
Land O'Lakes
     Segment operating income in the fourth quarter for WhiteWave Foods was $36.6 million, compared to $45.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Segment operating margins were 9.4%, compared to 13.3% in the fourth quarter of 2006, due to the lower contribution from related to increased brand spending and lower overall gross profit margins.
Horizon Organic
     "Overall, we are pleased with the results we've seen from our strategy to invest aggressively behind the Horizon Organic brand through this period of industry oversupply," added Mr. Engles. "We've successfully defended our marketshare during this period of rapid industry growth. Our increased investment has resulted in
 
volume growth that has outpaced the industry, helping to extend the brand's leading position in the market and positioning us to maximize its long-term value."
     For the full year, WhiteWave net sales increased 9.2% to $1.4 billion. For the year, milk sales increased 18%, due to the accelerated growth in the back half of the year fueled by the strong growth in raw milk supply and increased promotional spending. sales increased 8%. s sales increased 13% due to solid volume growth and commodity based price increases. sales increased 11% for the year.
Horizon Organic
Silk
Land O'Lake
International Delight
     Segment operating income for the year declined 10.8% to $118.4 million, from $132.7 million in 2006. The decline in operating income is primarily due to the increase in promotional spending in support of and higher infrastructure and distribution costs
Horizon Organic
.
CORPORATE EXPENSE
     Corporate and other expenses totaled $38.3 million, compared to $34.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. For the full year, corporate expense $153.2 million, compared to $141.6 million for the full year 2006. The increase in both the quarter and full year was largely driven by investments in support of the Company's strategic initiatives.
CASH FLOW
     Net cash provided by continuing operations for the full year 2007 totaled $350.3 million, compared to $561.6 million for the full year 2006. The decline in net cash provided by continuing operations is due primarily to higher year over year interest expense, lower operating results, and an increase in working capital requirements.
     Capital expenditures for the full year 2007 totaled $241.4 million, compared to $237.2 million for the full year 2006.
     In the fourth quarter, debt outstanding decreased by $93.7 million. Total debt at December 31, 2007, net of $32.6 million in cash on hand, was approximately $5.2 billion. The Company's funded debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined by the senior credit agreement dated April 2, 2007 related to its bank debt, was 5.95x.
FORWARD OUTLOOK
     "Turning to the outlook for 2008, it's clear that our results will continue to be driven primarily by swings in the dairy commodity markets, including the organic milk market," said Mr. Engles. "In 2007, we learned how difficult it is to forecast these markets given the impact of global dairy demand swings and a highly challenged
 
organic milk supply chain. Faced with these highly volatile and uncertain markets, we believe it is prudent to provide a wider guidance range for quarterly guidance than previous practice, and limited guidance for the full year."
     For the first quarter, the Company currently expects earnings per share to be between $0.15 and $0.20 per share. For the full year 2008, the Company expects earnings per share to be at least $1.20 per share.
     "Dairy commodity markets remain meaningfully above year ago levels, creating a significant drag on our near term earnings power," continued Mr. Engles. "For the first quarter, the Class I mover stepped higher in January, followed by a decline in February and what is expected to be another decline in March. As we look beyond the first quarter, we find it difficult to have much confidence in current dairy commodity forecasts given these unprecedented levels of dairy commodity market instability. In fact, given recent volatility in the markets, it now appears likely that the April Class I mover will be set above expected March levels. Beyond that, there is wide disparity of expectations for the balance of the year. Given the volatile trading in dairy commodities, prices may continue to vacillate between strong up months and strong down months. Additionally, the organic milk markets are evolving rapidly and it is difficult for us to predict exactly how the rest of the year will unfold for WhiteWave Foods as brand economics for Horizon Organic could swing materially as the year progresses. Despite this level of uncertainty, we anticipate strong EPS growth in the second half of 2008. However, it remains unclear just how favorable the year on year comparisons may be. We will update you more specifically on this outlook as the year unfolds."
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as Company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not presented in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP measures may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 calculated according to GAAP and on an adjusted basis is attached.
 
     For the quarter ended December 31, 2007, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing reorganization and other nonrecurring charges:
     For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing and reorganization charges:
     For the year ended December 31, 2007, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing, reorganization, and other nonrecurring charges:
     For the full year ended December 31, 2006, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing and reorganization charges:
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
     A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:30 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcast" section of the Company site at .
www.deanfoods.com
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
     Dean Foods Company is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. Its Dairy Group division is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods subsidiary markets and sells a variety of well-known dairy and dairy-related products, such as  soymilk,  milk and other dairy products,  coffee
Silk
Horizon Organic
International Delight
 
creamers, and  creamers and other fluid dairy products. WhiteWave Foods'  brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.
Land O'Lakes
Rachel's Organic
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material availability and costs, the demand for the Company's products, and the Company's ability to access capital under its credit facilities or otherwise, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 


