FILE:DF/DF-8K-20080529173814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On May 29, 2008, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") announced that Alan J. Bernon resigned from the Company's Board of Directors effective May 26, 2008. The press release announcing Mr. Bernon's resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, May 29 2008/PRNewsWire/  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) announced today that Alan J. Bernon has resigned from the Board of Directors to concentrate on other business and philanthropic interests. Dean Foods has no present plans to fill the vacancy.
"We appreciate the many years of valuable service that Alan has given to Dean Foods, both as a board member and member of our management team," said Gregg Engles, Chairman and CEO of Dean Foods. "We wish to thank Alan for his dedicated service to the Company's shareholders, customers and employees and wish him the best in all future endeavors."
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods Company is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the United States. The Company sells milk and a full range of other dairy products under more than 50 well-known local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods division produces a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as Horizon Organic(R) dairy products, Silk(R) soymilk, and International Delight(R) coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' Rachel's Organic(R) brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273, or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3437


