FILE:DF/DF-8K-20080430092220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the first quarter of 2008, issued April 30, 2008. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     DALLAS, April 30, 2008  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company earned $0.21 per diluted share from continuing operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, compared with $0.47 per diluted share from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2007. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter totaled $30.8 million, compared with $63.8 million in the prior year's first quarter.
     On an adjusted basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share were $0.23, compared to $0.50 in the prior year's first quarter. Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the first quarter was $32.4 million, compared to adjusted net income of $67.0 million in the first quarter of 2007. The decrease in adjusted net income and earnings per share is related to the increase in interest expense as a result of the special cash dividend of $15 per share that was paid in April 2007 and lower operating results in the quarter. Interest expense in the quarter totaled $83.8 million, compared to $52.2 million in the first quarter of 2007, accounting for the majority of the year over year decline in adjusted net income.
     "On the heels of the most challenging year in our history, I am pleased with the progress we've made in the first quarter of this new year across our business." commented Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While we expect continued challenges in the balance of 2008, we believe the difficulties of last year have strengthened our ability to navigate the continued volatility we anticipate in the commodity markets going forward."
 
     In the first quarter, as reflected in this earnings release, the Company realigned its reporting segments to reflect recent changes in the business reporting relationships along business platforms. Morningstar Foods, which is primarily a private label, warehouse delivered, extended shelf life and cultured dairy products business, has been combined with WhiteWave Foods to create the WhiteWave-Morningstar reporting segment, with $2.4 billion in 2007 net sales, reporting to Joe Scalzo. Morningstar results were previously reported as part of the Dairy Group reporting segment.
     The newly created DSD Dairy segment, under the leadership of Harrald Kroeker, primarily consists of the Company's conventional fluid milk, ice cream, creamers and other dairy, juice, and tea operations. These products are generally shorter-shelf life products that are produced in local facilities and distributed through the Company's national refrigerated direct store delivery (DSD) system. The DSD Dairy segment had full year net sales of $9.4 billion in 2007.
     The Company expects this realignment to allow WhiteWave and Morningstar to leverage the combined operational, selling systems and research and development expertise across this larger base of longer-shelf life, warehouse delivered business over time. For the DSD Dairy business, there is now increased focus on lowering costs and continuing to deliver consistently superior customer service in its high velocity, direct to customer business model. Recast historical financial information reflecting the change in reporting segments is included as an attachment to this press release.
 
DEAN FOODS CONSOLIDATED
     Net sales for the first quarter totaled $3.1 billion, an increase of 17% from net sales in the first quarter of 2007. Net sales increase in the quarter was due to the pass-through of higher dairy commodity costs and strong sales growth at WhiteWave-Morningstar.
     Consolidated operating income in the first quarter totaled $136.1 million, a decrease of 12% from $154.2 million in the first quarter of 2007. Adjusted first quarter consolidated operating income totaled $138.3 million, a decrease of 14% from $159.9 million in the first quarter of 2007.
DSD DAIRY
     DSD Dairy net sales for the first quarter were $2.5 billion, a 17% increase from $2.1 billion in net sales for the first quarter of 2007. The sales increase was due primarily to the pass-through of higher overall dairy commodity costs to customers. The first quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, averaged $19.12 per hundred-weight, a 39% increase from the same period in 2007 and 9% lower than the fourth quarter of 2007. Class II butterfat prices averaged $1.34 per pound in the first quarter, flat with the same period a year ago and 6% lower than the fourth quarter of 2007.
     DSD Dairy segment operating income in the first quarter was $130.9 million, compared to $153.7 million in the first quarter of 2007, as the impact of the pass-through of high dairy commodity costs and other items such as shrink, lower proceeds from excess cream sales, higher fuel costs and consumer mix shift toward private label products continued to pressure results. Additionally, first quarter 2007 results for the DSD Dairy segment include approximately $12 million of one-time benefits not included in the 2008 period.
WHITEWAVE  MORNINGSTAR
     The WhiteWave-Morningstar segment reported first quarter net sales of $618.5 million, 17% higher than first quarter 2007 net sales of $529.7 million. Sales growth was strong across the Morningstar business, as well as the entire branded portfolio with net sales of milk increasing nearly 30% due to continued strong volume growth that was driven by increased promotional activity and lower average prices versus the year ago period. Strong category growth and market share performance led to and net sales increases in the low double-digits and sales grew in the high single-digits over the same period last year.
Horizon Organic
International Delight
Silk
Land O'Lakes
     Segment operating income in the first quarter for WhiteWave-Morningstar was $45.4 million, compared to $45.2 million in the first quarter of 2007. Segment operating margins were 7.3%, compared to 8.5% in the first
 
quarter of 2007, due to the lower contribution from as a result of increased brand spending and lower overall gross profit margins.
Horizon Organic
CORPORATE EXPENSE
     Corporate and other expenses totaled $38.0 million, compared to $38.9 million in the first quarter of 2007. The decrease in the quarter was driven by on-going cost controls in base general and administrative costs offset by continued investments in support of the Company's strategic initiatives.
CASH FLOW
     Net cash provided by continuing operations for the first quarter of 2008 totaled $158 million, compared to $138 million for the first quarter of 2007. The increase in net cash provided by continuing operations is due primarily to decreased working capital requirement, offset by higher year over year interest expense and lower operating results. Also in the first quarter, the company raised approximately $400 million through a stock offering totaling 18.7 million shares.
     Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2008 totaled $45 million, compared to $52 million for the first quarter of 2007.
     In the first quarter, debt outstanding decreased by $460 million. Total debt at March 31, 2008, net of $41 million in cash on hand, was approximately $4.8 billion. The Company's funded debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined in its credit agreements, declined to 5.56x as of the end of the first quarter.
FORWARD OUTLOOK
     "It's clear that our results this year will largely be driven by the commodity markets, which remain highly unsettled and inflationary," continued Mr. Engles. "Longer term, we expect our transformational efforts to increasingly drive our results."
     "For the second quarter, the conventional commodity markets remain volatile," commented Jack Callahan, Chief Financial Officer. "Furthermore, the organic milk market is shifting rapidly from a state of oversupply to one of undersupply. Given the current instability in these markets, balanced against the momentum in the business coming off of a strong first quarter, we currently expect adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter in a range of $0.26 to $0.31 per share."
     "For the full year 2008, we have relatively greater confidence today compared to the start of the year," However, we believe it is too early to reassess our full year guidance given the dynamic volatility in the
 
commodity markets. Therefore, we are maintaining our full year outlook for adjusted earnings per share of at least $1.20, and we will revisit this guidance in conjunction with our second quarter earnings report."
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
     The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as Company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not presented in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP measures may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation for the three month periods ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 calculated according to GAAP and on an adjusted basis is attached.
     For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing reorganization and other nonrecurring charges:
     For the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following facility closing and reorganization charges:
 
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
     A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:30 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcast" section of the Company site at . There will be a slide presentation along with the webcast.
www.deanfoods.com/investors
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
     Dean Foods Company is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the United States. The Company sells milk and a full range of other dairy products under more than 50 well-known local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods division produces a variety of nationally-branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as dairy products, soymilk, and coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods' brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.
Horizon Organic
Silk
International Delight
Rachel's Organic
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
     Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material availability and costs, the demand for the Company's products, and the Company's ability to access capital under its credit facilities or otherwise, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


