FILE:DF/DF-8K-20090805080033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the registrant's earnings release for the second quarter of 2009, issued August 5, 2009. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
DALLAS, August 5, 2009  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced continued strong earnings growth in the second quarter with diluted earnings per share of $0.38 for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, a 23% increase over $0.31 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2008. Adjusted (as defined below) diluted earnings per share were $0.43, an increase of 30% from $0.33 per adjusted diluted share in the prior year's second quarter.
"The second quarter marks another solid step forward. Again, we posted strong financial results across the business, made continued progress against our strategic initiatives, and further deleveraged the balance sheet," commented Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We believe we are firmly on track to deliver very strong full year results."
Net income for the second quarter totaled $64.1 million, compared with $48.9 million in the prior year's second quarter, an increase of 31%. Strong operating income growth in the Fresh Dairy Direct and WhiteWave-Morningstar business segments and lower interest expense offset increases in Corporate and Other expenses to drive 41% growth in adjusted net income for the second quarter to $73.5 million, up from $52.0 million in the second quarter of 2008. Due to lower average debt balances, interest expense in the quarter totaled $60.0 million, compared to $76.5 million in the second quarter of 2008.
DEAN FOODS CONSOLIDATED
Net sales for the second quarter totaled $2.7 billion, a decrease of 14% from net sales in the second quarter of 2008. The net sales decrease in the quarter was primarily due to the pass-through of lower dairy commodity costs offset by higher volumes in Fresh Dairy Direct, and slightly lower net sales in the WhiteWaveMorningstar segment.
 
Consolidated operating income in the second quarter totaled $156.5 million, as compared to $157.2 million in the second quarter of 2008. Nine percent growth in Fresh Dairy Direct operating income and 46% growth in WhiteWave-Morningstar operating income, offset by higher Corporate and Other expense, resulted in second quarter consolidated adjusted operating income of $179.6 million, an increase of 11% from $162.4 million in the second quarter of 2008.
FRESH DAIRY DIRECT
 
Recent acquisitions and strong field execution drove the continued outperformance of Fresh Dairy Direct with fluid milk volume growth of 2.4% versus the balance of the industry, which saw a volume decline of roughly half a percent, based on Company estimates. Fresh Dairy Direct net sales declined due to the pass-through of lower average dairy commodity costs to its customers, consistent with industry practice. As a result, in spite of strong volume growth in the quarter, net sales declined 16% to $2.1 billion, from $2.5 billion in the second quarter of 2008.
Historically low dairy commodity prices, combined with other commodity favorability, benefits from cost control efforts, and continued volume growth led to Fresh Dairy Direct operating income of $168.6 million in the quarter, an increase of 9% from $154.3 million in the second quarter of 2008.
"In the second quarter, the combination of strong volume growth, a favorable commodity environment, solid execution from our field teams, and early benefits from our strategic initiatives across the manufacturing and distribution network led to strong operating results," said Harrald Kroeker, President of Dean's Fresh Dairy Direct segment. "Competitive pressures continue, but the commodity environment remains favorable and our business has solid momentum entering the back half of the year."
The second quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, remained at historically low levels during the second quarter, averaging $10.47 per hundredweight, a 41% decrease from the same period in 2008 and 13% lower than the first quarter of 2009. CME butter prices averaged $1.23 per pound in the second quarter, a decrease of 16% from the same period a year ago and 8% higher than the first quarter of 2009.
WHITEWAVE - MORNINGSTAR
 
Operating income in the second quarter for WhiteWave-Morningstar was $72.0 million, a 46% increase over $49.3 million in the second quarter of 2008. Operating margins were 11.6%, compared to 7.6% in the second quarter of 2008 driven by favorable dairy and energy commodities, cost initiatives, and supply chain efficiencies across the segment.
"While we continue to see growth slowing in our core categories due to the current economic situation, we believe that we have made the necessary investments to maintain our share position while attacking our cost structure. Consequently, we had a strong operating profit performance driven by tight SG&A expense control and aggressive cost initiatives combined with generally more favorable commodities," said Joe Scalzo, CEO, WhiteWave-Morningstar. "We continue to focus on improving operating leverage, while also investing to reignite growth in our premium categories and drive bottom-line performance."
WhiteWave-Morningstar reported second quarter net sales of $622.2 million, 5% lower than second quarter 2008 net sales of $652.3 million. Sales of the branded portfolio at WhiteWave decreased 3% to $358.9 million as a result of slowing category sales growth and the previously announced exit of a foodservice relationship in the Silk brand and some private label organic milk business in the United Kingdom. Net sales at Morningstar declined 7% to $263.4 million driven by the pass-through of lower dairy commodity costs and slightly lower product volumes that were impacted by weakness in the foodservice channel.
Within the branded portfolio, net sales of the WhiteWave creamer portfolio, which includes and brands, increased in the low-single digits driven by improved packaging and strong seasonal flavor performance of and strong net sales growth of Land O'Lakes creamers. soymilk sales increased slightly excluding the sales associated with the Company's 2008 strategic decision to exit a certain foodservice business relationship, and were down mid-single digits including the impact. Consistent with the organic milk category, milk increased slightly driven by solid growth in key segments such as DHA organic milk.
International Delight
Land O'Lakes
International Delight
Silk
Horizon Organic
ALPRO
During the second quarter, the Company announced its intention to purchase the Alpro division of Vandemoortele N.V. for a transaction price of approximately euro 325 million. The transaction was completed early in the third quarter.
Alpro is the European leader in branded soy-based beverage and food products with net sales of approximately euro 260 million in 2008 sold under the Alpro soya and Provamel brands. Alpro has five manufacturing sites in Belgium, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands and employs approximately 750 people.
"We are excited to have successfully completed the acquisition of Alpro," commented Engles. "The acquisition of Alpro brings a wealth of opportunity as we work with their strong management team to drive soy consumption in their established markets, as well as expand the brand's reach into new markets across the European Union. We also see important synergies with our
Silk brand to share best practices in product formulation and innovation, processing technologies and consumer insights. We look forward to telling you more about the Alpro business as we go forward."
Dean's acquisition of Alpro establishes Dean as a clear global leader in soy-based beverages and food products, with leading brands Silk in North America and Alpro soya and Provamel in Europe, and over $1 billion in combined retail sales.
CORPORATE AND OTHER EXPENSE
Corporate and Other expense totaled $61.0 million for the second quarter of 2009, as compared to $41.2 million in the second quarter of 2008. The increase in the quarter was driven by the Company's decision to accelerate investments in supply chain, information technology, and research and development, as well as increased employee-related costs and legal expenses. Also included in the corporate and other segment is $3.0 million of operating costs related to the Hero/WhiteWave joint venture.
The company recognized approximately $8.8 million of costs associated with closed and anticipated to close transactions in the quarter. These costs are required to be expensed as incurred and will no longer be capitalized on the balance sheet. The impact of these costs is excluded from the Company's adjusted results to aid period to period comparisons of operating performance.
CASH FLOW
Net cash provided by continuing operations for the first half of 2009 totaled $349.8 million, compared to $315.3 million for the first half of 2008.
Capital expenditures for the first half of 2009 totaled $101.1 million, compared to $105.8 million for the first half of 2008. For the year, the Company continues to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $300 million.
"Free cash flow and debt paydown were again especially strong in the quarter," said Jack Callahan, Chief Financial Officer. "Our strong cash performance over the last year, combined with our May equity offering that raised approximately $445 million, has allowed us to reduce our total debt outstanding by nearly $900 million in the past year alone."
In the second quarter, the Company's equity offering and strong cash flow combined to drive total net debt outstanding $509.7 million lower during the quarter. Total debt at June 30, 2009, net of $53.1 million in cash on hand, was approximately $3.8 billion. The Company's funded debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined by its credit agreements, declined to 3.85x as of the end of the second quarter.
FORWARD OUTLOOK
"Commodities continue to be favorable, and our efforts to drive costs out of the business are getting traction and increasingly impacting results," stated Engles. "While we see continued competitive activity in our fluid milk operations and are cautious about diminished commodity favorability in the future, our businesses carry significant momentum into the second half of the year. As a result, we are expecting adjusted diluted earnings per share of at least $0.30 in the third quarter and are increasing our forecast for the full year to at least $1.60 per adjusted diluted share."
RESULTS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2009
Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2009 totaled $5.4 billion, a decrease of 13% from net sales for the same period of last year, due to the pass-through of lower dairy commodity costs and slightly lower net sales at WhiteWave-Morningstar, offset by stronger volume at Fresh Dairy Direct. Net income for the first half of the year totaled $140.4 million, compared with $79.7 million in the first six months of 2008. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009 totaled $0.85, compared to $0.53 for the first six months of 2008.
On an adjusted basis (as defined below), net income for the six months ending June 30, 2009 totaled $156.0 million, compared to $84.5 million in the same period of 2008. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the first six months of 2009 totaled $0.95 compared to $0.56 in the first six months of 2008.
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as Company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items, closed or anticipated to close deal costs, gains or losses on foreign exchange forward contracts or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider
these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not presented in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP measures may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation for the three month periods ended June 30, 2009, and 2008 calculated according to GAAP on an adjusted basis is attached.
For the quarter ended June 30, 2009, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
GAAP operating income is adjusted by:
 
 
 
GAAP net income attributable to Dean Foods Company is adjusted by:
 
 
 
For the quarter ended June 30, 2008, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
GAAP operating income is adjusted by the following:
 
 
GAAP net income attributable to Dean Foods Company is adjusted by the following:
 
 
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2008, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:30 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcast" section of the Company's site at . A slide presentation will accompany the webcast.
www.deanfoods.com/investors
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct business is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country. The WhiteWave-Morningstar business produces and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy-related products. Popular brands include: Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic milk and dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, and LAND O'LAKES creamers. Additionally, the WhiteWave-Morningstar segment produces and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products through the Morningstar platform. Dean Food's business also includes Alpro, the pan-European leader in branded soy food products.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, debt covenant compliance, expected financial performance and capital structure. These statements involve risks and
uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material availability and costs, the demand for the Company's products, the Company's ability to integrate its acquisitions and the Company's ability to access capital under its credit facilities or otherwise, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273; or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3438
 
 
 
 
 


