FILE:DF/DF-8K-20090501072254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the earnings release of Dean Foods Company (the "Company") for the first quarter of 2009, issued May 1, 2009. This release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
On May 1, 2009, the Company announced that it has commenced a public offering of 22,500,000 shares of its common stock. A copy of the Company's press release containing this announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, May 1, 2009  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company earned $0.48 per diluted share for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, a 129% increase over $0.21 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2008. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter totaled $75.3 million, compared with $30.8 million in the prior year's first quarter.
On an adjusted basis (as defined below), diluted earnings per share were $0.52, an increase of 126% from $0.23 per adjusted diluted share in the prior year's first quarter. Adjusted net income for the first quarter was $81.4 million, an increase of 151% from adjusted net income of $32.4 million in the first quarter of 2008. The increase in adjusted net income is due primarily to strong growth in operating income across the business and lower interest expense. Interest expense in the quarter totaled $68.3 million, compared to $83.8 million in the first quarter of 2008.
"Clearly, the business was very strong in the first quarter, and we are off to a fast start to 2009," commented Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Both of our operating segments contributed to the strong results, and we continued to move forward on our strategic initiatives. The strong performance across the business drove consolidated adjusted operating income growth of 47% in the quarter. DSD Dairy, which has recently been renamed Fresh Dairy Direct, contributed to this strong result with operating income growth of 39% over the year ago period. WhiteWave-Morningstar also had a particularly strong quarter with operating income growth of 40% of the year ago period."
DEAN FOODS CONSOLIDATED
Net sales for the first quarter totaled $2.7 billion, a decrease of 12% from net sales in the first quarter of 2008. The net sales decrease in the quarter was due to the pass-through of lower dairy commodity costs and slightly lower net sales in the WhiteWave branded portfolio, offset by volume growth in the Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar businesses.
Consolidated operating income in the first quarter totaled $192.8 million, an increase of 42% from $136.1 million in the first quarter of 2008. Adjusted first quarter consolidated operating income totaled $202.8 million, an increase of 47% from $138.3 million in the first quarter of 2008.
FRESH DAIRY DIRECT
Fresh Dairy Direct net sales for the first quarter were $2.1 billion, a 15% decrease from $2.5 billion in net sales for the first quarter of 2008. The net sales decrease was due primarily to the pass-through of lower overall dairy commodity costs to customers, offset by continued volume growth. The first quarter average Class I mover, which is an indicator of the Company's raw milk costs, averaged $11.96 per hundredweight, a 37% decrease from the same period in 2008 and 26% lower than the fourth quarter of 2008. CME butter prices averaged $1.13 per pound in the first quarter, a decrease of 10% from the same period a year ago and 26% lower than the fourth quarter of 2008.
Fresh Dairy Direct segment operating income in the first quarter was $181.7 million, an increase of 39% from the $130.9 million in the first quarter of 2008. A favorable commodity environment, strong execution across the business, continued progress against the Company's transformation initiatives and continued volume growth all contributed to the improvement in quarterly results versus the year ago period.
WHITEWAVE - MORNINGSTAR
The WhiteWave-Morningstar segment reported first quarter net sales of $604.3 million, 2% lower than first quarter 2008 net sales of $618.5 million. Sales of the branded portfolio at WhiteWave decreased one percent to $359 million as a result of slowing category sales growth and the previously announced exit of a foodservice relationship in the Silk brand as well as some private label organic milk business in the United Kingdom. Volume growth was strong in the Morningstar business, particularly in the yogurt and cottage cheese segments. Weakness in the casual dining channel was offset by relative strength in quick service restaurants and retail channels. Volume growth at Morningstar was offset by lower overall pricing related to the pass-through of lower dairy commodity prices to customers, resulting in a net decline in sales in the first quarter of 4% to $245 million.
Within the branded portfolio, net sales of milk increased in the low single digits amidst slowing growth in the organic milk category. soymilk sales increased mid-single digits excluding the sales associated with the Company's 2008 strategic decision to exit a certain foodservice business relationship. flavored coffee creamer sales increased slightly. Net sales increased in the high single-digits for the branded creamer products over the same period last year.
Horizon Organic
Silk
International Delight
Land O'Lakes
Segment operating income in the first quarter for WhiteWave-Morningstar was $63.5 million, a 40% increase over $45.4 million in the first quarter of 2008. Segment operating margins were 10.5%, compared to 7.3% in the first quarter of 2008. Favorable dairy and energy commodities and solid cost management drove strong growth in profitability for the WhiteWave-Morningstar segment.
CORPORATE AND OTHER EXPENSE
Corporate and Other expense totaled $44.1 million for the first quarter of 2009, as compared to $38.0 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Adjusted Corporate and Other segment expenses totaled $42.4 million, compared to $38.0 million in the first quarter of 2008. The increase in the quarter was driven by higher professional fees, employee-related costs and insurance expenses. Also included in the corporate and other segment is $1.7 million of operating costs related to the Fruit2Day joint venture, as well as approximately $2.6 million of transaction related costs. Beginning in 2009, transaction related costs are required to be expensed as incurred and will no longer be capitalized on the balance sheet.
CASH FLOW
Net cash provided by continuing operations for the first quarter of 2009 totaled $184.7 million, compared to $158.3 million for the first quarter of 2008.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2009 totaled $42 million, compared to $45 million for the first quarter of 2008. For the year, the Company continues to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $300 million.
In the first quarter, debt outstanding decreased by $121 million. Total debt at March 31, 2009, net of $63 million in cash on hand, was approximately $4.3 billion. The Company's funded debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined by its credit agreements, declined to 4.45x as of the end of the first quarter, which is below the final leverage covenant step down to 4.5x that will take place on December 31, 2010.
FORWARD OUTLOOK
"We have significant momentum in our business with an exceptionally strong first quarter behind us and indications of a solid start to the second quarter," stated Jack Callahan, Chief Financial Officer. "We are expecting adjusted diluted earnings to be at least $0.38 per share for the second quarter, assuming the issuance of approximately $465 million of new shares of common stock."
"For the full year, flowing through some of the upside from the first quarter, assuming the issuance of approximately $465 million of new shares of common stock, we are maintaining our guidance of at least $1.55 of adjusted earnings per diluted share, which is nearly 20% EPS growth over 2008."
RECENT EVENTS
 
 
COMPARISON OF ADJUSTED INFORMATION TO GAAP INFORMATION
The adjusted financial results contained in this press release are from continuing operations and are adjusted to eliminate the net expense or net gain related to the items identified below. This information is provided in order to allow investors to make meaningful comparisons of the Company's operating performance between periods and to view the Company's business from the same perspective as Company management. Because the Company cannot predict the timing and amount of charges associated with non-recurring items or facility closings and reorganizations, management does not consider these costs when evaluating the Company's performance, when making decisions regarding the allocation of resources, in determining incentive compensation for management, or in determining earnings estimates. These costs are not presented in any of the Company's operating segments. This non-GAAP financial information is provided as additional information for investors and is not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP. These non-GAAP measures may be different than similar measures used by other companies. A full reconciliation for the three month periods ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 calculated according to GAAP and on an adjusted basis is attached.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
GAAP operating income is adjusted by the following:
 
 
GAAP net income attributable to Dean Foods Company is adjusted by the following:
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the adjusted results reported above differ from the Company's results under GAAP by excluding the following:
GAAP operating income is adjusted by the following:
 
GAAP net income attributable to Dean Foods Company is adjusted by the following:
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST
A webcast to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook will be held at 9:30 a.m. ET today and may be heard live by visiting the "Webcast" section of the Company's site at . There will be a slide presentation along with the webcast.
www.deanfoods.com/investors
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct segment is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as soymilk and cultured soy products milk and other dairy products, coffee creamers, creamers and other fluid dairy products, and dairy products. Additionally, our WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products.
Silk
, Horizon Organic
International Delight
LAND O'LAKES
Rachel's Organic
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Some of the statements in this press release are "forward-looking" and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These "forward-looking" statements include statements relating to, among other things, projected sales, operating income, net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, debt covenant compliance, expected financial performance and capital structure. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from the statements set forth in this press release. The Company's ability to meet targeted financial and operating results, including targeted sales, operating income, net income and earnings per share depends on a variety of economic, competitive and governmental factors, including raw material availability and costs, the demand for the Company's products, and the Company's ability to access capital under its credit facilities or otherwise, many of which are beyond the Company's control and which are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's ability to profit from its branding initiatives depends on a number of factors including consumer acceptance of the Company's products. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date of this release. The Company expressly disclaims any
obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to such statements to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273; or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3438
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, May 1, 2009  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that the Company has commenced an offering of 22,500,000 shares of common stock. The offering includes an option for the underwriters to purchase up to 3,375,000 additional shares to cover overallotments, if any. The offering is being conducted as a public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933. Merrill Lynch & Co., J.P. Morgan, Barclays Capital and Wachovia Securities are joint book-running managers for the offering.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to repay the $122.8 million aggregate principal amount of its subsidiary's 6.625% senior notes due May 15, 2009, and use the remaining net proceeds to repay indebtedness under its receivables-backed facility.
The offering is being made solely by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to the common stock can be obtained from Merrill Lynch & Co., 4 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10080, Attention: Prospectus Department, from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, Attention: Chase Distribution & Support Service Northeast Statement Processing, from Barclays Capital Inc., c/o Broadridge, Integrated Distribution Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, toll-free at 1-888-603-5847 or email a request to barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com, or from Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Attention: Equity Syndicate Department, 375 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10152, toll-free at 1-800-326-5897 or email a request to equity.syndicate@wachovia.com.
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct segment is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as soymilk and cultured soy products milk and other dairy products, coffee creamers, creamers and other fluid dairy products, dairy products. Additionally, our WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products.
Silk
, Horizon Organic
International Delight
LAND O'LAKES
and Rachel's Organic
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273; or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3438


