FILE:DF/DF-8K-20090526153913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Retirement of Directors
On May 21, 2009, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") announced the retirement of Lewis M. Collens and Pete Schenkel from the Board of Directors. Such retirement was effective as of the annual meeting of stockholders that occurred May 21, 2009.
(d) Election of New Directors
On May 21, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Mr. J. Wayne Mailloux and Ms. Doreen A. Wright to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Mailloux and Ms. Wright will each serve as a Class II Director, with a term expected to expire in 2012. The Board named both Mr. Mailloux and Ms. Wright to its Governance Committee.
Each new director received a grant of 7,013 stock options granted as of the close of business on May 21, 2009, and a grant of 1,795 restricted stock units granted as of the close of business on May 21, 2009, as calculated in accordance with the description set forth in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2009, which description is incorporated herein by reference. Each new director will be eligible for annual director grants going forward. In addition, each new director will receive an annual retainer of $35,000, payable quarterly in arrears, $3,000 for each meeting (Board of Directors or Committee) attended in person and $1,000 for each meeting attended by telephone. Each new director will receive additional retainer fees of $2,000 per year for serving on the Governance Committee.
A copy of the press release announcing the retirements and elections described above is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
(e) Amendment of Material Compensatory Plan
On May 21, 2009, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Dean Foods Company 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") which increased the shares available for grant by 4,000,000 shares, of which 2,200,000 shares may be used for grants of awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights. A description of the material terms and conditions of the 2007 Plan, and the awards made to named executive officers thereunder, is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2009, which description is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, TEXAS (May 21, 2009)  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that Pete Schenkel and Lewis M. Collens retired from the Dean Foods Board of Directors and Wayne Mailloux and Doreen Wright were elected as new members, effective immediately.
Schenkel and Collens Retire from the Board
Pete Schenkel was elected to the Board of Directors in January 2000 and became Vice Chairman in January 2006. He previously served as President of Dean Dairy Group. Schenkel joined the company in January 2000 in connection with Dean Foods' acquisition of Southern Foods Group. From 1959 to December 31, 1999, he served in various capacities at Southern Foods Group, including Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from 1994 through 1999, and President from 1987 to 1994.
Over the last 50 years, Schenkel has been an iconic figure in the U.S. dairy industry and is considered one of the most important figures in the creation and success of Dean Foods to date.
Lewis M. Collens was elected to the Board of Directors in December 2001 in connection with Suiza Foods' acquisition of the former Dean Foods Company. He served on the Board of the former Dean Foods from 1991-2001. Collens was President of Illinois Institute of Technology and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IIT Research Institute from 1990 to 2007.
"Pete and Lew have been integral members of the Board of Directors and have added value throughout their tenure and will be missed," said Gregg Engles, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "The Board wishes them well in the next phase of their careers and thanks them for their many contributions."
Wright and Mailloux Elected to the Board
Dean Foods is pleased to welcome Doreen Wright and Wayne Mailloux to its Board of Directors. "We are thrilled that Doreen and Wayne have agreed to join Dean Foods' Board," said Engles. "The breadth and depth of their personal and business experiences, together with their proven leadership qualities, will strengthen the Board's ability to guide Dean Foods toward becoming a leading food and beverage company."
Doreen Wright
Doreen Wright recently retired from Campbell Soup Company where she served as Chief Information Officer from 2001 to 2008. In 2002, she was the interim Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining Campbell, Doreen was Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer at Nabisco. Doreen has held leadership positions in operations and information technology in the financial services and consumer products industries including Prudential, American Express, Bankers Trust Company and Merrill Lynch.
She currently sits on the Board of Directors of Conseco, Inc., serving on the Audit Committee, and also serves on the Oriental Trading Company Board of Directors. She is Vice Chairman of the Riverside Symphonia. She previously served on the boards of the Yankee Candle Company, Alphanet Solutions, as well as a number of performing arts organizations.
Wright brings strong financial, IT and risk management capability, in addition to her demonstrated competence in large-scale project management and change management. She is known for creating high-performing cultures by insisting on excellence and instilling a sense of accountability within organizations.
 
Wayne Mailloux
Wayne Mailloux retired from PepsiCo in 2004 after a lengthy career as a senior executive serving as SVP Global Sales at headquarters in New York, and prior to that as President Pepsi Cola Europe/Africa in London, and President of Pepsi Cola Canada in Toronto. Mailloux launched his career as President, Seven-Up Montreal Bottling, Seven-Up Canada, Inc. Mailloux also held leadership positions at Grey Advertising Montreal, Cadbury Schweppes Powell Canada, Inc., Fromageries Bel, as well as General Foods.
He currently sits on the Board of Directors for Black Bull Resources Inc. Previously, he served on the boards of Delta Systems Inc., Ault Dairies Limited, Alliance Canners of Canada Ltd., Britvic Holdings UK Limited, International Pepsi Cola Bottling Investments Ltd., Canadian Soft Drinks Association, and the Grocery Products Manufacturers Council of Canada.
Mailloux brings a breadth of experience that will benefit Dean Foods as it implements its strategic growth plan over the next three to five years. He has led large marketing organizations and operating businesses in a wide variety of competitive markets across the globe and has deep experience in sales, marketing and complex franchise/distribution systems and multi channel customer relationships in North America and Europe.
Said Engles, "Both are highly regarded business leaders with demonstrated track records of success in leading strategic business transformations. Wayne's background in sales and distribution and Doreen's background in technology transformation will be particularly valuable to our continued growth."
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods Company is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the United States. The Company sells milk and a full range of other dairy products under more than 50 well-known local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave Foods division produces a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as  dairy products,  soymilk, and  coffee creamers. WhiteWave Foods'  brand is the largest organic milk brand and second largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom.
Horizon Organic
Silk
International Delight
Rachel's Organic
 
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273; or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3437


