FILE:DF/DF-8K-20090318161858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 18, 2009, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") announced that Ronald Kirk resigned effective immediately from the Company's Board of Directors in connection with his being appointed as United States Trade Representative. The press release announcing Mr. Kirk's resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, March 18, 2009/PRNewsWire/-Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) extends its congratulations to Ron Kirk on his appointment by President Barack Obama as United States Trade Representative.
In connection with this appointment, Kirk resigned from the Dean Foods Board of Directors.
"We regret that Ron will be leaving our board and we will miss his counsel and insight," said Gregg Engles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "I am confident that Ron will excel in the role of United States Trade Representative."
Added Engles, "We appreciate the many years of valuable service that Ron has given to Dean Foods and wish him success as the nation's top trade negotiator."
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. The Company's DSD Dairy segment is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country, with products sold under more than 50 familiar local and regional brands and a wide array of private labels. The Company's WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells a variety of nationally branded dairy and dairy-related products, such as Silk soymilk and cultured soy products, Horizon Organic milk and other dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, LAND O'LAKES creamers and other fluid dairy products. Our WhiteWave-Morningstar segment's Rachel's Organic dairy products brand is the fourth largest organic yogurt brand in the United Kingdom. Additionally, our WhiteWave-Morningstar segment markets and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products through our Morningstar platform.
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Marguerite Copel, +1-214-721-1273, or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3437


