FILE:DF/DF-8K-20090515152615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The underwriters of Dean Foods Company's previously disclosed offering of 22,500,000 shares of common stock have exercised their over-allotment option with respect to 2,905,000 shares of common stock out of a total over-allotment option of 3,375,000 shares at a purchase price per share of $18.25. The offering was conducted as a public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933. The closing of the underwriters' option exercise is expected to occur on May 19, 2009, subject to customary closing conditions.
The Company expects to receive net proceeds from the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option of approximately $51 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to repay indebtedness under its receivables-backed facility.
Merrill Lynch & Co., J.P. Morgan, Barclays Capital and Wachovia Securities were joint book-running managers for the offering. Rabo Securities USA, Inc. was the senior co-manager, and BNP PARIBAS, Calyon Securities (USA) Inc., Credit Suisse and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey were the co-managers for the offering.
The offering was made solely by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus. This Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. A copy of the prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to the common stock can be obtained from Merrill Lynch & Co., 4 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10080, Attention: Prospectus Department, from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, Attention: Chase Distribution & Support Service Northeast Statement Processing, from Barclays Capital Inc., c/o Broadridge, Integrated Distribution Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, toll-free at 1-888-603-5847 or email a request to barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com, or from Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Attention: Equity Syndicate Department, 375 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10152, toll-free at 1-800-326-5897 or email a request to equity.syndicate@wachovia.com.
 
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to the Company, has issued an opinion to the Company, dated May 14, 2009, regarding the legality of the shares of common stock to be issued and sold in the offering upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
May 14, 2009
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the public offering by Dean Foods Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), of up to 3,375,000 shares of the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "Shares"), issuable by the Company upon exercise of the over-allotment option granted by the Company, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-149439) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") on February 28, 2008 and the prospectus supplement, dated May 5, 2009, to the prospectus dated February 28, 2008 included in the Registration Statement.
The Shares are to be sold by the Company pursuant to an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") entered into between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named therein.
We are acting as counsel for the Company in connection with the sale by the Company of the Shares. We have examined signed copies of the Registration Statement as filed with the Commission. We have also examined and relied upon the Underwriting Agreement, resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and committees thereof, minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company as provided to us by the Company, the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company, each as restated and/or amended to date, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary for purposes of rendering the opinions hereinafter set forth.
In our examination of the foregoing documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents and the legal competence of all signatories to such documents.
We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the state laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
 
 
Page 2
May 14, 2009
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Shares to be issued and sold by the Company have been duly authorized for issuance and, when such Shares are issued and paid for in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, such Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of these sources of law or subsequent legal or factual developments which might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Registration Statement in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act and to the use of our name therein and in the related Prospectus under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Very truly yours,
WILMER CUTLER PICKERING
HALE AND DORR LLP
 


