FILE:DF/DF-8K-20101008160434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 8, 2010, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") announced that Harrald F. Kroeker will no longer serve as President of the Company's Fresh Dairy Direct division, effective October 6, 2010. The Company also announced that Christopher Sliva was promoted to Chief Commercial Officer of the Company effective October 6, 2010. In this new role, Mr. Sliva will have responsibility for directing the commercial strategy of both the Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar divisions' sales and lines of business. Mr. Sliva, age 47, joined us in 2006 as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Customer Care Officer at our WhiteWave Foods Company subsidiary. In 2008, Mr. Sliva was promoted to Chief Operating Officer at our Morningstar division. Effective January 1, 2010, Mr. Sliva was promoted to President, Morningstar.
Mr. Kroeker will remain with the Company through November 30, 2010. In connection with his termination of employment, Mr. Kroeker will receive severance benefits pursuant to the Company's Amended and Restated Executive Severance Plan, which are set forth in Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
The press release containing these announcements is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In addition, on October 6, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved grants of restricted stock units to Gregg A. Tanner, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Such grants will be made in the amounts, and on the dates, as set forth below. Also set forth below is the respective vesting date of each of the grants.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
DALLAS October 8, 2010/PRNewsire/ Dean Foods (NYSE: DF), a leading dairy company in the United States and a global leader in soy products, today announced that Harrald Kroeker, 50, President of the Fresh Dairy Direct (FDD) division, will be leaving the company to pursue other opportunities. Though Mr. Kroeker's departure from FDD is immediate, he will remain with Dean Foods through the end of November.
The company also announced today the promotion of Chris Sliva, 47, to the new position of Dean Foods Chief Commercial Officer, effective immediately. Sliva is currently President of the Morningstar Division of Dean Foods. In this new role, Sliva will be responsible for directing the commercial strategy of both the FDD and Morningstar divisions' sales and lines of business. Sliva reports to Joe Scalzo, President and Chief Operating Officer.
"Over the past four years, Harrald leveraged his experience and talents toward improving the efficiency and effectiveness of FDD operations," said Scalzo. "He was instrumental in positioning the company to take advantage of its scale, brands, and local knowledge. We thank him for his many contributions and wish him well in his future endeavors."
Chris Sliva takes on the newly created Chief Commercial Officer position, designed to more closely align the company's sales organizations, commercial lines of business, and customer relationships. Sliva's immediate focus is creating and executing selling strategies tailored for key accounts and channels across categories.
"Chris Sliva's strong commercial background, exceptional leadership credentials and customer relationships make him the ideal choice for this role," said Scalzo. "I have every confidence that he will enhance our selling effectiveness and drive revenue growth."
Sliva joined the Dean Foods WhiteWave division in 2006 as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Customer Officer. In 2008, he was promoted to Chief Operating Officer, Morningstar and to President, Morningstar in January 2010. He previously served as Vice President and General Manager of Americas Output for Eastman Kodak Corporation, where he also served as Vice President, Retail Sales and Vice President, U.S. Sales. His prior experience includes marketing and sales roles at Fort James Corporation and Procter & Gamble.
Page 2/Kroeker-Sliva
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States and a European leader in branded soy foods and beverages. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar segment is the largest U.S. processor and distributor of milk, creamer, and cultured dairy products. Dean Foods markets these offerings under more than 50 local and regional dairy brands, as well as through private labels. The WhiteWave-Alpro segment produces and sells an array of branded dairy, soy and plant-based beverages and foods. WhiteWave brands, including Silk(R) soy and almond milk, Horizon Organic(R) milk and dairy products, International Delight(R) coffee creamers, and LAND O'LAKES(R) creamers, are category leaders and consumer favorites. Alpro is the pan-European leader in branded soy food products.
Contact:
Investors:
Barry Sievert
Investor Relations
(214) 303-3437
Media:
Marguerite Copel
Corporate Communications
(214) 721-1273


