FILE:DF/DF-8K-20100125083926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 22, 2010, Dean Foods Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This press release shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT:
Marguerite Copel
Corporate Communications
214-721-1273
DALLAS, Texas, January 22, 2010  Dean Foods (DF) announced that it was contesting a complaint filed today by the Department of Justice challenging its April 2009 acquisition of Foremost Farms. The company believes its acquisition of the DePere and Waukesha, Wis. fluid milk processing plants from Foremost is fully compliant with antitrust laws, and will defend itself vigorously against the complaint.
The company believes that, from the time of the acquisition almost a year ago, this transaction has benefitted Wisconsin dairy farmers by providing a stable and growing outlet for their milk. In addition, the transaction already has produced important cost savings that will benefit customers and spur competition in and around Wisconsin. It promises to deliver even greater customer benefits once the DePere and Waukesha plants are fully integrated into the Dean network.
The company believes an objective judicial review of the facts will reveal that competition is alive and flourishing in Wisconsin.
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct business is the largest processor and distributor of milk and other dairy products in the country. The WhiteWave-Morningstar business produces and sells a variety of nationally branded soy, dairy and dairy-related products. Popular brands include: Silk soymilk, Horizon Organic milk and dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, and LAND O'LAKES creamers. Additionally, the WhiteWave-Morningstar segment produces and sells private label cultured and extended shelf life dairy products through the Morningstar platform. Dean Foods' business also includes Alpro, the pan-European leader in branded soy food products.


