FILE:DF/DF-8K-20100611164129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 11, 2010, Dean Foods Company (the "Company") announced that Shaun P. Mara will join the Company effective June 28, 2010 as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Mara, who is 45, served from 2008-2009 as Senior Vice President of Finance for the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company ("Wrigley"), a subsidiary of Mars, Incorporated ("Mars"), where he maintained responsibility for corporate reporting, global finance, and post-merger integration functions for a division with approximately $6 billion in revenue. Prior to the acquisition of the Wrigley by Mars, from 2006-2008 Mr. Mara also served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for Wrigley and oversaw all accounting, SEC financial filings, and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance matters. From 2004-2006, Mr. Mara served as Vice President of Finance, Commercial Operations for Wrigley, where he led a global sales and marketing group with approximately $4 billion in revenue.
The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Mara a base salary of $350,000, and he will be eligible to earn a target annual incentive payment of 50% of his base salary pursuant to the Company's Short-Term Incentive Plan. Such payment will be prorated based on his actual start date, and will be guaranteed at $100,000 or actual achievement (whichever is greater). In addition, Mr. Mara will receive a one-time signing bonus of $50,000. Subject to approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, the Company intends to grant Mr. Mara long-term incentive compensation consisting of stock options having a Black Scholes value of $125,000, and restricted stock units having a value of $125,000. Subject to approval by the Compensation Committee, the Company also intends to grant long-term incentive compensation for 2011 with a target value of no less than $250,000, consisting of stock options, restricted stock units and cash performance units. Mr. Mara will also be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Severance Plan (as set forth in Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008) and will be provided with a change in control agreement (in substantially the form of Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008), pursuant to which he will be entitled to certain benefits in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The Company also announced on June 11, 2010 that Ron McCrummen will leave his current position as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer effective July 31, 2010 to pursue interests outside the Company. The press release containing these announcements is attached to as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
DALLAS, June 11, 2010  Dean Foods Company (NYSE: DF) today announced that food and consumer packaged goods industry veteran Shaun Mara will join the Company effective June 28, 2010, as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Mara most recently served as Senior Vice President of Finance for the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a subsidiary of Mars, Incorporated, where he maintained responsibility for corporate reporting, global finance, and post-merger integration functions. Prior to the acquisition of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company by Mars, Mara also served as Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer and oversaw all accounting, SEC financial filings, and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance matters.
With deep experience in food and consumer packaged goods, Mara is an industry veteran who will contribute immediately to the on-going transformation of the Finance function within Dean Foods. His expertise will contribute to the continual streamlining of financial reporting, accounting and compliance operations based on consistent accounting practices and policies.
"Driving cost reductions and building the capabilities needed to capture those savings remains the key focus of our long-term strategic growth plan," said Jack Callahan, Chief Financial Officer. "Shaun Mara brings critical expertise to Dean Foods at a time when his talent, leadership skills and financial acumen can help drive the business forward to achieve our goals."
Prior to joining Wrigley, Mara held senior corporate finance positions with The Gillette Company. He also has past experience with Staples, Inc. and KPMG.
The Company also announced that Ron McCrummen will leave his current position as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer to pursue interests outside the Company. "Ron played an integral role in the evolution of Dean Foods from an acquisition- based holding company into an industry-leading food and beverage company, and this change reflects his desire to pursue a broader Finance leadership role," said Callahan. "He will be missed and we wish him well in his future endeavors."
ABOUT DEAN FOODS
Dean Foods is one of the leading food and beverage companies in the United States and a European leader in branded soy foods and beverages. The Company's Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar segment is the largest U.S. processor and distributor of milk, creamer, and cultured dairy products. These offerings are marketed under more than 50 local and regional dairy brands, as well as through private labels. The WhiteWave-Alpro segment produces and sells an array of branded dairy, soy and plant-based beverages and foods. WhiteWave brands, including Silk soy and almond milk, Horizon Organic milk and dairy products, International Delight coffee creamers, and LAND O'LAKES creamers, are category leaders and consumer favorites. Alpro is the pan-European leader in branded soy food products.
CONTACT: Corporate Communications, Liliana Esposito, +1-214-721-7730; or Investor Relations, Barry Sievert, +1-214-303-3438


