FILE:DF/DF-8K-20101216171335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indenture
On December 9, 2010, Dean Foods Company, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), agreed to issue and sell $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 9.750% senior notes due 2018 (the "Notes") at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, if any, from December 16, 2010, in a private placement for resale to "qualified institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. On December 16, 2010, the Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of May 15, 2006 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010, among the Company, the guarantors listed therein and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), and Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010, among the Company, the guarantors listed therein and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
The Notes are the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally with all of its other senior unsecured indebtedness. The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis, jointly and severally, by the Company's subsidiaries that are guarantors under the Company's Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 2, 2007 (as amended and restated as of June 30, 2010, the "Existing Credit Facility"), as amended as described below, among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders.
The Notes will mature on December 15, 2018. Interest on the Notes will accrue from December 16, 2010, at the rate of 9.750% per year. Interest is payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing June 15, 2011.
The Company may, at its option, redeem all or part of the Notes at any time prior to December 15, 2014 at a make-whole price, and at any time on or after December 15, 2014 at fixed redemption prices (104.875% of principal from December 15, 2014 through December 14, 2015; 102.438% of principal from December 15, 2015 through December 14, 2016; and 100.000% of principal from December 15, 2016 through maturity), plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest (referred to below under "Registration Rights Agreement"), if any, to the date of redemption. In addition, prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may, at its option, redeem up to 35% of the Notes with the proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price of 109.750% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and special interest, if any, to the redemption date.
If specific kinds of changes of control occur and the Company has not previously exercised its right to redeem all of the outstanding Notes, the Company must offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any.
The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, limit the Company's ability to incur secured indebtedness, enter into sale-leaseback transactions and engage in mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of its assets.
The Indenture contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in the Indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure of any guarantee on the Notes to be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.
On December 16, 2010, the date the Notes were issued, the Company used the net proceeds of the offering to pay fees and expenses related to the previously disclosed amendment dated December 9, 2010 ("Amendment No. 1") to the Existing Credit Facility and to repay a portion of the outstanding 2014 tranche A term loan borrowings under the Existing Credit Facility. In connection with the closing of the Notes offering and these payments, the conditions with respect to Amendment No. 1 were satisfied and Amendment No. 1 became effective. In addition, the conditions with respect to the previously disclosed Amendment Number 11 dated December 9, 2010 (the "Eleventh Amendment") to the Fifth Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement and Reaffirmation of Performance Undertaking dated as of April 2, 2007 (the "Receivables Purchase Agreement") by and among (1) Dairy Group Receivables, L.P., Dairy Group Receivables II, L.P., Morningstar Receivables, L.P., and WhiteWave Receivables, L.P., as sellers, all of which are subsidiaries of the Company, (2) the financial institutions that are party to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended by the Eleventh Amendment, (3) the companies that are party to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended by the Eleventh Amendment, (4) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent, (5) the Company, as provider of certain performance undertakings on behalf of its subsidiaries, and (6) each of the Company's subsidiaries that are party to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended by the Eleventh Amendment, as servicers, were satisfied and the Eleventh Amendment also became effective.
Affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers of the Notes are currently lenders under the Existing Credit Facility and, accordingly, they received a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes in the offering.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and other applicable securities laws. Neither this Form 8-K nor any exhibit hereto shall constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of the Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
The foregoing description of certain of the terms of the Indenture, Amendment No. 1 and the Eleventh Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Base Indenture, which was filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 19, 2006, Supplemental Indenture No. 6, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Form 8-K, Amendment No. 1, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 9, 2010 and the Eleventh Amendment, which was filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 9, 2010, all of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Registration Rights Agreement
In connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company also entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2010 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), among the Company, the guarantors listed therein and the several initial purchasers listed therein, for whom Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated acted as representative.
Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agreed to file with the SEC on or prior to 365 days after the closing of the offering of the Notes offering a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for identical new notes (except that the new notes will not be subject to restrictions on transfer) registered under the Securities Act. The Company agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement for the exchange offer to be declared effective on or prior to 455 days after the closing of the offering of the Notes and to commence and complete the exchange offer promptly, but no later than 30 business days after such registration statement has become effective. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company may be required to provide a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Notes under certain circumstances.
If the Company fails to satisfy these obligations, the Company may be required to pay special interest on the Notes. With respect to the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of the first such registration default, special interest will be paid in an amount equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes entitled to such registration rights then outstanding. The amount of the special interest will increase by an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all such registration defaults have been cured, up to a maximum amount of special interest for all such registration defaults of 1.0% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes entitled to such registration rights then outstanding.
The foregoing description of certain of the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Registration Rights Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
6, dated as of December 16, 2010 (this ""), among , a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), signatory hereto and , a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 
Supplemental Indenture No. 6
DEAN FOODS COMPANY
Company
THE GUARANTORS
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006 (as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of May 17, 2006, Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated as of July 31, 2007, Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated as of March 11, 2009, Supplemental Indenture No. 4 dated as of June 12, 2009 and Supplemental Indenture No. 5 dated as of December 7, 2009, the "" and, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, the ""), relating to the issuance from time to time by the Company of its Securities on terms to be specified at the time of issuance;
Original Indenture
Indenture
WHEREAS, Section 3.01 of the Original Indenture provides that the Company may enter into a supplemental indenture to establish the terms and provisions of a series of Securities issued pursuant to the Original Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue a series of Securities, and has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such Securities and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 to modify the Original Indenture and provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described;
WHEREAS, the following indirect subsidiary of the Company has become a guarantor under the Senior Credit Agreement: FRESH DAIRY DELIVERY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "");
Additional Subsidiary
WHEREAS, in connection herewith, the Additional Subsidiary has executed and delivered a Subsidiary Guarantee pursuant to Section 13.03 of the Original Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto deem it advisable to enter into this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 for the purpose of establishing the terms of such Securities, providing for the rights, obligations and duties of the Trustee with respect to such Securities, amending certain provisions of the Original Indenture and allowing the Additional Subsidiary to execute a supplemental indenture in respect of a Subsidiary Guarantee; and
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements of the Original Indenture necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, the parties hereto agree as follows:
. This Supplemental Indenture No. 6 constitutes an integral part of the Original Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, shall apply to the 2018 Senior Notes (as defined in Section 2.01 hereof)) in respect of the 2018 Senior Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Original Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series (in each case, except as provided in Article VII hereof). To the extent any provision of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 conflicts with the express provisions of the Original Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 shall govern and be controlling.
Section 1.01
Relation to Indenture
. For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, the capitalized terms used herein (i) that are defined herein have the respective meanings assigned thereto herein, and (ii) that are defined in the Original Indenture (and which are not defined in this Supplemental Indenture No. 6) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Original Indenture. For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6:
Section 1.02
Definitions
1.01.01. All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6;
1.01.02. The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture No. 6;
1.01.03. All references to "interest" in this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 and, insofar as such references pertain to the 2018 Senior Notes, in the Original Indenture shall be deemed to include Special Interest; and
1.01.04. The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes issued in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) in equity of such Person, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock.
Capital Stock
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act or any successor provisions to either of the foregoing), including any group acting for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of securities within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) under the Exchange Act, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a person will be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company (for purposes of this clause (a), such person or group shall be deemed to beneficially own any Voting Stock of a corporation held by any other corporation (the "") so long as such person or group beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate at least a majority of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of such parent corporation); or
parent corporation
(b) the sale, transfer, assignment, lease, conveyance or other disposition, directly or indirectly, of all or substantially all the Property of the Company and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole (other than a disposition of such Property as an entirety or virtually as an entirety to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary), shall have occurred, or the Company merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into any other Person or any other Person merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for cash, securities or other Property, other than any such transaction where:
(1) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for other Voting Stock of the Company or for Voting Stock of the surviving Person, and
(2) the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, not less than a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or the surviving Person immediately after such transaction and in substantially the same proportion as before the transaction; or
(c) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (together with any new directors whose election or appointment by such Board or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company was approved by a vote of not less than three-fourths of the directors then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors then in office; or
(d) the shareholders of the Company shall have approved any plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" means Clearstream Banking,
Clearstream
socit anonyme
 
"" means the date on which the 2018 Senior Notes are originally issued under this Supplemental Indenture No. 6.
Closing Date
"" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, at the date of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, located at 601 Travis, 16th Floor, Houston, TX, 77002, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the 2018 Senior Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any debt of such Person in respect of borrowed money, including Guarantees related thereto.
Debt
"" means a certificated 2018 Senior Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.10 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such 2018 Senior Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
"" means any class or series of Capital Stock of any Person that by its terms is (1) required to be redeemed prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Senior Notes, (2) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock at any time prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Senior Notes or (3) convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock referred to in clause (1) or (2) above or indebtedness having a scheduled maturity prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Senior Notes; , only the portion of such Capital Stock which is so required to be redeemed, redeemable or convertible or exchangeable prior to such date will be deemed to be Disqualified Stock; that any Capital Stock that would not constitute Disqualified Stock but for provisions thereof giving holders thereof the right to require such Person to repurchase or redeem such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a "change of control" occurring prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Senior Notes shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the "change of control" provisions applicable to such Capital Stock are no more favorable to the holders of such Capital Stock than the provisions contained in Section 4.01 hereof and such Capital Stock specifically provides that such Person will not repurchase or redeem any such stock pursuant to such provision prior to the Company's repurchase of such notes as are required to be repurchased pursuant to Section 4.01 hereof; that, any class or series of Capital Stock of such Person that, by its terms or otherwise, authorizes such Person to satisfy in full its obligations with respect to the payment of dividends or upon maturity, redemption (pursuant to a sinking fund or otherwise) or repurchase thereof or otherwise by the delivery of any Capital Stock that is not Disqualified Stock, will not be deemed to be Disqualified Stock so long as such Person satisfies its obligations with respect thereto solely by delivery of such Capital Stock.
Disqualified Stock
provided that
provided further
provided further
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
"" means (i) a public or private sale of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company or (ii) a public or private sale of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of a direct or indirect parent entity of the Company (to the extent the net proceeds therefrom are contributed to the common equity capital of the Company).
Equity Offering
 
"" means Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system.
Euroclear
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means the notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.10(f).
Exchange Notes
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.10(g)(2) hereof, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under the Indenture.
Global Note Legend
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto and that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, issued in accordance with Section 2.08, 2.10(b)(3), 2.10(b)(4), 2.10(d)(2) or 2.10(f) hereof.
Global Notes
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the 2018 Senior Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
"" means any principal, interest, including Special Interest, if any, premium (if any), penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages, expenses and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Debt.
Obligations
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.10(g)(1) hereof to be placed on all 2018 Senior Notes issued under the Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of the Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means any asset, revenue or any other property, whether tangible or intangible, real or personal, including, without limitation, any right to receive income.
Property
"" or "" has the meaning specified in Rule 144A.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
QIB
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01 hereof.
Redemption Date
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2010, by and among the Company, the guarantors listed in Schedule I thereto and the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule II thereto as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any additional Securities having the same interest rate, maturity date, CUSIP number and other terms (other than the issue date, the issue price and the amount of interest payable on the first interest payment date after issuance) that are issued by the Company as contemplated by Section 2.02 hereof, one or more registration rights agreements among the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, in each case relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of 2018 Senior Notes to register such 2018 Senior Notes under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
"Regulation S Global Note"
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
"" means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 144A"
means Rule 903 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 903"
means Rule 904 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 904"
"" means all additional interest then owing pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Special Interest
"" when used with respect to the 2018 Senior Notes, has the meaning specified in Section 2.03 hereof.
Stated Maturity,
 
"" means, as of any Redemption Date, the yield to maturity at the time of computation of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) which has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014; provided, however, that if the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014 is not equal to the constant maturity of a United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014 is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used. The Company will (a) calculate the Treasury Rate as of the second Business Day preceding the applicable Redemption Date and (b) prior to such Redemption Date file with the Trustee an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Treasury Rate and showing the calculation in reasonable detail.
Treasury Rate
"" means a Definitive Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
"" means a Global Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
"" means, with respect to any Person, Capital Stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
"" means any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or any similar business organization which is so owned or controlled.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
. There shall be a series of Securities designated the "9.750% Senior Notes due 2018" (the "").
Section 2.01
Title of Securities
2018 Senior Notes
. The aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes shall initially be limited to $400,000,000 (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities pursuant to Sections 2.02, 3.06, 3.07, 3.09, 9.05 or 11.07 of the Original Indenture and Section 2.10 hereof). The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2018 Senior Notes, issue additional Securities having the same interest rate, maturity date, CUSIP number and other terms (other than the issue date, the issue price and the amount of interest payable on the first Interest Payment Date after issuance). Any additional Securities, together with the 2018 Senior Notes, will constitute a single series of Securities under the Indenture. No additional Securities may be issued if an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing with respect to the 2018 Senior Notes.
Section 2.02
Limitation of Aggregate Principal Amount
 
. The principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes outstanding (together with any accrued and unpaid interest) shall be payable in a single installment on December 15, 2018, which date shall be the Stated Maturity of the 2018 Senior Notes.
Section 2.03
Principal Payment Date
. The rate of interest on each 2018 Senior Note shall be 9.750% per annum, accruing from December 16, 2010, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year commencing June 15, 2011 until the principal thereof shall have become due and payable, and until the principal thereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment. The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any partial period shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on any 2018 Senior Note is not a Business Day, then payment of interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay). The interest installment so payable in respect of any 2018 Senior Note, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name such 2018 Senior Note (or one or more predecessor securities) is registered at the close of business on June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, prior to such Interest Payment Date (the ""). Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for in respect of any 2018 Senior Note shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name such 2018 Senior Note (or one or more predecessor securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date to be fixed by the Trustee for the payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of the 2018 Senior Notes not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the 2018 Senior Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Original Indenture.
Section 2.04
Interest and Interest Rates
Record Date
. The place where the 2018 Senior Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment, where the 2018 Senior Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demand to or upon the Company in respect of the 2018 Senior Notes and the Indenture may be served shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or at the Company's office or the Paying Agent's office maintained for that purpose in the borough of Manhattan, City of New York.
Section 2.05
Place of Payment
. The 2018 Senior Notes shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Section 2.06
Denomination
. Principal and interest on the 2018 Senior Notes shall be payable in such coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Section 2.07
Currency
 
.
Section 2.08
Form of 2018 Senior Notes; Global Security
(a) The 2018 Senior Notes will initially be issued in one or more permanent global securities substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto), as a book-entry security. Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding 2018 Senior Notes as will be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding 2018 Senior Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding 2018 Senior Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding 2018 Senior Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.10 hereof.
. The Trustee shall serve initially as the Security Registrar and the Paying Agent.
Section 2.09
Security Registrar and Paying Agent for the 2018 Senior Notes
.
Section 2.10
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will only be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
(1) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary;
(2) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or
(3) there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes, if the Trustee so requests.
Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (1), (2) or (3) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee; , , that interests in the Regulation S Global Note will not be exchangeable for Definitive Notes until after expiration of the Restricted Period. Such Definitive Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof and will be in registered form only, without coupons. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.09 of the Original Indenture. Every Definitive Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.10 or Sections 3.06, 3.07 or 3.09 of the Original Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another 2018 Senior Note other than as provided in this Section 2.10(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.10(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
provided
however
 
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(1) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.10(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
(2) In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.10(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes.
(A) both:
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
(ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
(B) both:
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (i) above.
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.10(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.10(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 and the 2018 Senior Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.10(h) hereof.
(3) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.10(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note.
(A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
(B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
(4) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.10(b)(2) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (c), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (c) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Original Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (c) above.
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
Subject to Section 2.10(a),
(1) If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
(F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(G) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.10(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.10(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.10(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(2) A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(3) If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.10(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.10(h) hereof, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.10(c)(3) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.10(c)(3) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
(1) If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes.
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(E) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
(F) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(G) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee will cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
 
(2) A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
(ii) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.10(d)(2), the Trustee will cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(3) A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(C) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Original Indenture, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.10(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder must present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder must provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.10(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes.
(1) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
(A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
(C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
(2) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
(ii) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(3) A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(f) Upon the consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Original Indenture, the Trustee will authenticate:
Exchange Offer.
(1) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; , the Company in its sole discretion shall determine whether to issue more than one Unrestricted Global Note; and
provided that
(2) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company.
Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount. Any 2018 Senior Notes that were outstanding prior to the Exchange Offer that remain outstanding after the consummation of an Exchange Offer, and Exchange Notes issued in connection with an Exchange Offer, shall be treated as a single class of securities under this Indenture.
 
(g) The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under the Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6.
Legends.
(1) .
Private Placement Legend
(A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefore or substitution thereof) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
"THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF APPLICABLE) (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS) OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AFFILIATES OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (A) ABOVE. NO REPRESENTATION CAN BE MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THE EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 FOR RESALE OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY."
 
(B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(4), (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (f) of this Section 2.10 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) will not bear the Private Placement Legend. The Company may also provide a certificate to the Trustee instructing the Trustee that the Private Placement Legend no longer applies or issue one or more new Notes to the Trustee in replacement for all or part of the Notes with the Private Placement Legend.
(2) . Each Global Note will bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.10 OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 6 HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO, (2) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.10(a) OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 6, (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.10 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE AND (4) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
 
(h) At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 3.10 of the Original Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes.
(1) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(A) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Original Indenture or at the Registrar's request.
(B) No service charge will be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 3.09 and 11.07 of the Original Indenture and Section 4.01 hereof).
(C) The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
(D) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid Obligations of the Company, evidencing the same Debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(E) Neither the Registrar nor the Company will be required:
 
 
 
 
(F) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
(G) The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Original Indenture.
(H) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.10 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
(i) . Each Holder of a 2018 Senior Note agrees to indemnify the Company and Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's 2018 Senior Note in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States Federal or state securities law. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any 2018 Senior Notes other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof. Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
Indemnification by Holders of 2018 Senior Notes
. On and after December 15, 2014, the Company may, at the Company's option, from time to time, redeem some or all of the 2018 Senior Notes, upon notice as described below, at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, on the 2018 Senior Notes, to the applicable date of redemption (the "") (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date), if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on December 15 of the years indicated below:
Section 3.01
Optional Redemption
Redemption Date
 
 
Prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may, at its option, on any one or more occasions, upon notice as described below, redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes issued under the Indenture with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings at a redemption price of 109.750% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); that
provided
 
 
In addition, the Company may, at the Company's option, redeem all, or, from time to time, a part of the 2018 Senior Notes at any time prior to December 15, 2014, upon notice as described below, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, on the principal amount of 2018 Senior Notes being redeemed to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any redemption at the Company's option as described above, the Company must provide not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed by first class mail to each Holder of the 2018 Senior Notes at its registered address.
. Notice of redemption shall be given in accordance with Section 11.04 of the Original Indenture. If the Company is redeeming less than all of the outstanding 2018 Senior Notes, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days and not less than 30 days before the Redemption Date, the particular 2018 Senior Notes or portions thereof for redemption in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the 2018 Senior Notes are listed or, if the 2018 Senior Notes are not listed, then on a basis (or, in the case of 2018 Senior Notes issued as Global Notes, the Trustee will select the 2018 Senior Notes for redemption based on DTC's method that most nearly approximates a selection), by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion will deem to be fair and appropriate, although no note of $2,000 in original principal amount or less will be redeemed in part. In the case of any redemption of 2018 Senior Notes prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of the 2018 Senior Notes or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Section 3.02
Selection and Notice
pro rata
pro rata
 
If notice of redemption of 2018 Senior Notes to be redeemed at the election of the Company is to be given, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, the Company shall, at least 10 days prior to the date notice of redemption is required to be given (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such date, of the applicable redemption date and of the principal amount of 2018 Senior Notes to be redeemed.
. The Company has no obligation to redeem or purchase any 2018 Senior Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous requirement or upon the happening of a specified event or at the option of a Holder thereof, except as described in Article II, below.
Section 3.03
Sinking Fund Obligations
.
Section 4.01
Required Repurchase on Change of Control
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the 2018 Senior Notes under Article III hereof, each Holder of the 2018 Senior Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such Holder's 2018 Senior Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at a purchase price (the "") equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 2018 Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including Special Interest, if any, to, but excluding the repurchase date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Purchase Price
Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company will:
(a) cause a notice of the Change of Control Offer to be sent at least once to the Dow Jones News Service or similar business news service in the United States; and
(b) send, by first-class mail, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder of 2018 Senior Notes, at such Holder's address appearing in the security register, a notice stating:
(1) that a Change of Control has occurred and a Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to the covenant entitled "Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon a Change of Control" and that all 2018 Senior Notes timely tendered will be accepted for payment;
(2) the Change of Control Purchase Price and the repurchase date, which will be, subject to any contrary requirements of applicable law, a Business Day no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed;
 
(3) the circumstances and relevant facts regarding the Change of Control (including information with respect to historical income, cash flow and capitalization after giving effect to the Change of Control); and
pro forma
(4) the procedures that Holders of 2018 Senior Notes must follow in order to tender their 2018 Senior Notes (or portions thereof) for payment, and the procedures that such Holders must follow in order to withdraw an election to tender 2018 Senior Notes (or portions thereof) for payment.
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control (1) if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all 2018 Senior Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer, or (2) notice of redemption has been given pursuant to the Indenture under Article III hereof. A Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of, or conditional upon, a Change of Control if a definitive agreement is in place.
If Holders of not less than 90% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2018 Senior Notes validly tender and do not withdraw such 2018 Senior Notes in a Change of Control Offer and the Company, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Company as described above, purchases all of the 2018 Senior Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn by such holders, the Company will have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all 2018 Senior Notes that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to the applicable Change of Control Purchase Price plus, to the extent not included in the Change of Control Purchase Price, accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
. The Company shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the repurchase of 2018 Senior Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article IV, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Article IV by virtue of this compliance.
Section 4.02
Compliance with the Exchange Act
Exchange Act
. In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the Original Indenture, an Event of Default will also occur in the event the Subsidiary Guarantee of the 2018 Senior Notes by any of the Subsidiary Guarantors ceases to be, or is asserted in writing by the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor not to be, in full force and effect or enforceable in accordance with its terms (except as contemplated or permitted by the terms of the Subsidiary Guarantee or the Indenture).
Section 5.01
Failure of a Subsidiary Guarantee
 
. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors agree that, for so long as any 2018 Senior Notes remain outstanding, if at any time the Company is not subject to Section 13 or Section 15 of the Exchange Act, they will furnish to the Holders and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Section 6.01
Rule 144A(d)(4) Information
. Subject to the provisions of Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture, which provisions are incorporated herein by reference, the Additional Subsidiary hereby agrees to unconditionally guarantee, to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Original Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, the Securities or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (a) the principal of, and interest, if any, on, the Securities will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at Stated Maturity, by acceleration, redemption, purchase or otherwise, and (b) all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee under the Original Indenture, and the Securities will be fully and punctually performed within the grace period set forth in Section 6.01(c) of the Original Indenture, if applicable, all in accordance with the terms of Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture.
Section 7.01
Additional Subsidiary Guarantee
. Each reference to the word "corporation" in Section 5.01(a) of the Original Indenture shall be deleted and replaced with the word "Person".
Section 8.01
Amendment to Original Indenture
. This Supplemental Indenture No. 6 constitutes an integral part of the Original Indenture. Except for the amendments and supplements made by this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, the Original Indenture shall remain in full force and effect as executed.
Section 8.02
Integral Part; Effect of Supplement on Indenture
. The Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture No. 6, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Section 8.03
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
. The recitals in this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 are made by the Company and the Guarantors, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of such recitals. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture No. 6.
Section 8.04
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
 
. This Supplemental Indenture No. 6 may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be regarded for all purposes as an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 8.05
Counterparts
. This Supplemental Indenture No. 6 and the 2018 Senior Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made or instruments entered into, in each case, performed in said state. The Trustee, the Company, the Guarantors and the Holders agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 or the 2018 Senior Notes.
Section 8.06
Governing Law
. EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE GUARANTORS AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE 2018 SENIOR NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 8.07
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee have executed this Supplemental Indenture No. 6 as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
[Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
CUSIP: []
 
Dean Foods Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [] ($[]) on December 15, 2018, and to pay interest thereon from December 16, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year, commencing June 15, 2011 at the rate of 9.750% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Holder in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
The Company will pay principal and, as provided above, interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may pay principal and interest by its check payable in such money. It may mail an interest check to a Holder's registered address (as reflected in the Security Register). If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on such payment for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Security to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
Dated: December 16, 2010
This is one of the Securities described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes or other evidence of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, which series is initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000, all of such Securities issued and to be issued under an Indenture dated as of May 15, 2006, as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010 and as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010 (as so supplemented, the "Indenture") among the Company, the guarantors party thereto (the "Guarantors") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "`Trustee"). Capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of all such terms. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Security and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture shall control.
As provided in the Indenture, the Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided or permitted. This Security is one of a series of Securities designated pursuant thereto as the 9.750% Senior Note due 2018.
The Securities are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company.
The Company may, subject to Article Four of the Indenture and applicable law, issue additional Securities of any series under the Indenture.
 
Initially, the Trustee will act as authenticating agent, Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any authenticating agent, Paying Agent or Registrar without notice. The Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of any of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar.
 
On and after December 15, 2014, the Company may, at the Company's option, from time to time, redeem some or all of the Securities, upon notice as described below, at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of principal amount of the Securities) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, on the Securities, to the applicable Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date), if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on December 15 of the years indicated below:
 
 
Prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may, at its option, on any one or more occasions, upon notice as described below, redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities issued under the Indenture with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings at a redemption price of 109.750% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); that
provided
 
 
In addition, the Company may, at the Company's option, redeem all, or, from time to time, a part of the Securities at any time prior to December 15, 2014, upon notice as described below, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Special Interest, if any, on the principal amount of Securities being redeemed to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any redemption at the Company's option as described above, the Company must provide not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed by first class mail to each Holder of the Securities at its registered address.
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) in equity of such Person, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock.
Capital Stock
 
"" means any class or series of Capital Stock of any Person that by its terms is (1) required to be redeemed prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the Securities, (2) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock at any time prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the Securities or (3) convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock referred to in clause (1) or (2) above or indebtedness having a scheduled maturity prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the Securities; , only the portion of such Capital Stock which is so required to be redeemed, redeemable or convertible or exchangeable prior to such date will be deemed to be Disqualified Stock; that any Capital Stock that would not constitute Disqualified Stock but for provisions thereof giving holders thereof the right to require such Person to repurchase or redeem such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a "change of control" occurring prior to the date that is 91 days after the Stated Maturity of the Securities shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the "change of control" provisions applicable to such Capital Stock are no more favorable to the holders of such Capital Stock than the provisions contained in Section 4.01 of Supplemental Indenture No. 6 and such Capital Stock specifically provides that such Person will not repurchase or redeem any such stock pursuant to such provision prior to the Company's repurchase of such notes as are required to be repurchased pursuant to Section 4.01 of Supplemental Indenture No. 6; that, any class or series of Capital Stock of such Person that, by its terms or otherwise, authorizes such Person to satisfy in full its obligations with respect to the payment of dividends or upon maturity, redemption (pursuant to a sinking fund or otherwise) or repurchase thereof or otherwise by the delivery of any Capital Stock that is not Disqualified Stock, will not be deemed to be Disqualified Stock so long as such Person satisfies its obligations with respect thereto solely by delivery of such Capital Stock.
Disqualified Stock
provided that
provided further
provided further
"" means (i) a public or private sale of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company or (ii) a public or private sale of Capital Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of a direct or indirect parent entity of the Company (to the extent the net proceeds therefrom are contributed to the common equity capital of the Company).
Equity Offering
"" when used with respect to the Securities, has the meaning specified in Section 2.03 of Supplemental Indenture No. 6.
Stated Maturity,
"" means, as of any Redemption Date, the yield to maturity at the time of computation of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) which has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014; provided, however, that if the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014 is not equal to the constant maturity of a United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the period from the Redemption Date to December 15, 2014 is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used. The Company will (a) calculate the Treasury Rate as of the second Business Day preceding the applicable Redemption Date and (b) prior to such Redemption Date file with the Trustee an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Treasury Rate and showing the calculation in reasonable detail.
Treasury Rate
 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below), unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities under Article III of Supplemental Indenture No. 6, each Holder of the Securities will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at a purchase price (the "") equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including Special Interest, if any, to, but excluding the repurchase date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Purchase Price
Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company will:
(a) cause a notice of the Change of Control Offer to be sent at least once to the Dow Jones News Service or similar business news service in the United States; and
(b) send, by first-class mail, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder of Securities, at such Holder's address appearing in the security register, a notice stating:
(1) that a Change of Control has occurred and a Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to the covenant entitled "Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon a Change of Control" and that all Securities timely tendered will be accepted for payment;
(2) the Change of Control Purchase Price and the repurchase date, which will be, subject to any contrary requirements of applicable law, a Business Day no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed;
(3) the circumstances and relevant facts regarding the Change of Control (including information with respect to historical income, cash flow and capitalization after giving effect to the Change of Control); and
pro forma
(4) the procedures that Holders of Securities must follow in order to tender their Securities (or portions thereof) for payment, and the procedures that such Holders must follow in order to withdraw an election to tender Securities (or portions thereof) for payment.
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control (1) if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer, or (2) notice of redemption has been given pursuant to the Indenture under Article III of Supplemental Indenture No. 6. A Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of, or conditional upon, a Change of Control if a definitive agreement is in place.
 
If Holders of not less than 90% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities validly tender and do not withdraw such Securities in a Change of Control Offer and the Company, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Company as described above, purchases all of the Securities validly tendered and not withdrawn by such Holders, the Company will have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all Securities that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to the applicable Change of Control Purchase Price plus, to the extent not included in the Change of Control Purchase Price, accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
The Company shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the repurchase of Securities pursuant to a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions described above, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations with respect to the matters described above by virtue of this compliance.
Exchange Act
The terms below are defined as follows:
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act or any successor provisions to either of the foregoing), including any group acting for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of securities within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) under the Exchange Act, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a person will be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company (for purposes of this clause (a), such person or group shall be deemed to beneficially own any Voting Stock of a corporation held by any other corporation (the "parent corporation") so long as such person or group beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate at least a majority of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of such parent corporation); or
(b) the sale, transfer, assignment, lease, conveyance or other disposition, directly or indirectly, of all or substantially all the Property of the Company and its Subsidiaries, considered as a whole (other than a disposition of such Property as an entirety or virtually as an entirety to a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary), shall have occurred, or the Company merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into any other Person or any other Person merges, consolidates or amalgamates with or into the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for cash, securities or other Property, other than any such transaction where:
(1) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for other Voting Stock of the Company or for Voting Stock of the surviving Person, and
 
(2) the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, not less than a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or the surviving Person immediately after such transaction and in substantially the same proportion as before the transaction; or
(c) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (together with any new directors whose election or appointment by such Board or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company was approved by a vote of not less than three-fourths of the directors then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors then in office; or
(d) the shareholders of the Company shall have approved any plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" means any asset, revenue or any other property, whether tangible or intangible, real or personal, including, without limitation, any right to receive income.
Property
"" means, with respect to any Person, Capital Stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
"" means any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or any similar business organization which is so owned or controlled.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 
The Guarantors have unconditionally guaranteed the due and punctual payment of the principal, and interest, including Special Interest, if any, on the Securities of this series when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise in the manner and to the extent set forth in the Indenture. The Subsidiary Guarantees will irrevocably terminate upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
 
The Securities of this series are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder may register the transfer or exchange of Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.
 
A Holder shall be treated as the owner of a Security for all purposes.
 
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee and the Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company or the Guarantors, as the case may be, for payment, unless an applicable law designates another Person, and all liability of the Trustee and such Paying Agent with respect to such money shall cease. In no event will interest accrue on such unclaimed monies.
 
In accordance with the terms of the Indenture, if the Company deposits with the Trustee money or Government Obligations sufficient to pay the then outstanding principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities of this series (a) the Company will be discharged from the Securities of this series and the Indenture with respect to the Securities of this series, except in certain circumstances for certain provisions thereof, and (b) the Company will be discharged from certain covenants set forth in the Indenture.
 
Subject to certain exceptions, (a) the Indenture or the Securities of this series may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities of this series then outstanding and (b) any past or existing Default or Event of Default or compliance with any provision may be waived with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities of this series then outstanding. Without notice to or the consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Securities of this series to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency and make any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
 
The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company, among other things, to (a) create liens upon any principal property, (b) engage in sale and leaseback transactions or (c) merge, consolidate, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of substantially all of its assets. On or before a date not more than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not the signers thereof know of any Default or Event of Default under such restrictive covenants.
 
 
When a successor Person or other entity assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture, the predecessor Person will be released from those obligations.
 
If any Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security
 
The Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from and perform services for the Company, any Guarantor or their respective Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company, any Guarantor or their respective Affiliates as if it were not the Trustee.
 
No incorporator or any past, present or future partner, stockholder, other equity holder, officer, director, employee or controlling Person, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor or of any successor Person shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Securities.
 
This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee or authenticating agent signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN NET (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUTS (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
 
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. The Trustee, the Company, each of the Guarantors and the Holders agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Securities.
The Company will furnish a copy of the Indenture to any Holder upon written request and without charge. Requests may be made to Dean Foods Company, 2711 North Haskell Avenue, Suite 3400, Dallas, Texas 75204; Attention: Treasurer.
 
For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Indenture dated as of May 15, 2006, as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010 and as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010 (as so supplemented, the "Indenture") by and among the Company, the Guarantors listed on Schedule I thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest, including Special Interest, if any, on, the Securities when due, whether at Stated Maturity, by acceleration, redemption, purchase or otherwise, and (b) the full and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee under the Indenture and the Securities within the grace period set forth in Section 6.01(c) of the Indenture, if applicable. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Securities and to the Trustee pursuant to the Subsidiary Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article Thirteen of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Subsidiary Guarantee, including provisions relating to the release or termination of the Subsidiary Guarantee(s). Each Holder of Securities, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
Dated: December 16, 2010
 
 
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
Insert social security or other identifying number of assignee
Print or type name, address and zip code of assignee
and irrevocably appoint             , as agent, to transfer this Security on the books of the Company.
The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date:
                    
 
Signature Guarantee*
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.01 of Supplemental Indenture No. 6, check the following box:  
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.01 of Supplemental Indenture No. 6, state the principal amount you elect to have purchased:
 
Date:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
 
Exhibit B
Dean Foods Company
2711 North Haskell Avenue
Suite 3400
Dallas, Texas 75204
Attention: Treasurer
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
601 Travis, 16th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, between Dean Food Company, as issuer (the ""), the guarantors listed on Schedule 1 thereto (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010 and as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010, between the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Guarantors
Trustee
Indenture
, (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                    
Transferor
            
Transfer
            
Transferee
1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
 
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
OR
(b) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof;
OR
(c) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;
OR
(d) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to Supplemental Indenture No. 6 and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
(a) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144
(b) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
(c) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Dean Foods Company
2711 North Haskell Avenue
Suite 3400
Dallas, Texas 75204
Attention: Treasurer
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
601 Travis, 16th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re:
9.750% Senior Notes Due 2018
(CUSIP )
            
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, between Dean Food Company, as issuer (the ""), the guarantors listed on Schedule 1 thereto (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010 and as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010, between the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Guarantors
Trustee
Indenture
, (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                                                             
Owner
            
Exchange
1.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
(c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
(d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note.
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Note, Regulation S Global Note, with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Dated:
                    
 
Exhibit D
Dean Foods Company
2711 North Haskell Avenue
Suite 3400
Dallas, Texas 75204
Attention: Treasurer
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
601 Travis, 16th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re:
9.750% Senior Notes Due 2018
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, between Dean Food Company, as issuer (the ""), the guarantors listed on Schedule 1 thereto (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented prior to December 16, 2010 and as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of December 16, 2010, between the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Guarantors
Trustee
Indenture
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount of:
            
(a) a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
(b) a Definitive Note,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company; (B) under a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act; (C) to a Person that we reasonably believe is a "Qualified Institutional Buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) that is purchasing for its own account or for the account of another Qualified Institutional Buyer and to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, all in compliance with Rule 144A (if available); (D) in an offshore transaction complying with Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act; or (E) under any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
3. We understand that, prior to any transfer of the Notes pursuant to clause (E) of paragraph 2, we will be required to furnish to the Company such legal opinions as the Company may require and may rely upon to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. We understand that we may also be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications and other information as you or the Company may require and may rely upon to confirm that any transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
4. We have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are not acquiring the Notes with a view towards any distribution thereof in a transaction that would violate the Securities Act or the securities laws of any state of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion and on behalf of which we have the full power to make the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. We understand that you and the Company and others will rely upon the truth and accuracy of the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements and agree that, if any of the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements is no longer accurate, we will promptly notify you and the Company of such inaccuracy.
 
Dated:
                    
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of December 16, 2010, by and among Dean Foods Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), the guarantors listed in Schedule I attached hereto (collectively, the "Guarantors"), and the several initial purchasers listed in Schedule II attached hereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated is acting as representative (the "Representative"), each of which has agreed to purchase the Company's 9.750% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Initial Notes") fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Guarantors (the "Guarantees") pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below). The Initial Notes and the Guarantees attached thereto are herein collectively referred to as the "Initial Securities."
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated December 9, 2010 (the "Purchase Agreement"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the several Initial Purchasers, for which the Representative is acting as representative (i) for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Initial Securities, including the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Initial Securities, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement.
The parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer:
Any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or U.S. federal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies located in New York, New York or Delaware are authorized or obligated to be closed.
Business Day:
The date of this Agreement.
Closing Date:
The Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission:
A registered Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (i) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (ii) the maintenance of such Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, and (iii) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Notes in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities that were properly tendered by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Consummate:
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Effectiveness Target Date:
 
: Each Initial Security, until the earliest to occur of (a) the date on which such Initial Security has been exchanged by a Person other than a Broker-Dealer for an Exchange Security in the Exchange Offer; (b) following the exchange by a Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer of an Initial Security for an Exchange Security, the date on which such Exchange Security is sold to a purchaser who receives from such Broker-Dealer on or prior to the date of such sale a copy of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement: (c) the date on which such Initial Security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement; (d) the date on which such Initial Security is actually sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act; provided that an Initial Security will not cease to be an Entitled Security for purposes of the Exchange Offer by virtue of this clause (d); or (e) the date on which such Initial Security shall cease to be outstanding.
Entitled Security
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act:
The registration by the Company under the Securities Act of the Exchange Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company offers the Holders of all outstanding Entitled Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Entitled Securities held by such Holders for Exchange Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Entitled Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer:
The Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement:
The transactions in which the Initial Purchasers propose to sell the Initial Securities to certain "qualified institutional buyers," as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to certain non-U.S. persons outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Exempt Resales:
The 9.750% Senior Notes due 2018, of the same series under the Indenture as the Initial Securities, to be issued to Holders in exchange for Entitled Securities pursuant to this Agreement.
Exchange Securities:
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA:
As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holders:
As defined in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder:
The Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 6 thereto, dated December 16, 2010, among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), pursuant to which the Securities are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture:
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Notes:
 
The issuance and sale by the Company of the Initial Securities to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Initial Placement:
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers:
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Securities:
As defined in the Indenture and the Securities.
Interest Payment Date:
An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person:
The prospectus included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus:
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default:
Any registration statement of the Company relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Entitled Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement:
The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.
Securities:
The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act:
As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Filing Deadline:
As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement:
With respect to the Initial Securities, each Interest Payment Date.
Special Interest Payment Date:
The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act:
A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering:
SECTION 2. .
Securities Subject to this Agreement
(a) . The securities entitled to the benefits of this Agreement are the Entitled Securities.
Entitled Securities
(b) A Person is deemed to be a holder of Entitled Securities (each, a "Holder") whenever such Person owns Entitled Securities.
Holders of Entitled Securities.
 
SECTION 3. .
Registered Exchange Offer
(a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), each of the Company and the Guarantors shall (i) cause to be filed with the Commission on or prior to 365 days after the Closing Date (or if such 365th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), an Exchange Offer Registration Statement under the Securities Act relating to the Exchange Securities and the Exchange Offer, (ii) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective at the earliest possible time, but in no event later than on or prior to 455 days after the Closing Date (or if such 455th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (iii) in connection with the foregoing, (A) file all pre-effective amendments to such Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective, (B) if applicable, file a post-effective amendment to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430A under the Securities Act and (C) cause all necessary filings in connection with the registration and qualification of the Exchange Securities to be made under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit Consummation of the Exchange Offer, and (iv) upon the effectiveness of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, commence the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Exchange Notes to be offered in exchange for the Entitled Securities and to permit resales of Initial Securities held by Broker-Dealers as contemplated by Section 3(c) hereof.
(b) The Company and the Guarantors shall cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to Consummate the Exchange Offer; , , that in no event shall such period be less than 20 Business Days after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Securities shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), the Company shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be Consummated on or prior to 30 Business Days, or longer if required by applicable securities laws, after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective by the Commission.
provided
however
(c) The Company shall indicate in a "Plan of Distribution" section contained in the Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement that any Broker-Dealer who holds Initial Securities that are Entitled Securities and that were acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Entitled Securities acquired directly from the Company), may exchange such Initial Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resales of the Exchange Securities received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such resales by Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such resales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Initial Securities held by any such Broker-Dealer except to the extent required by the Commission as a result of a change in policy after the date of this Agreement.
 
Each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities acquired by Broker-Dealers for their own accounts as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 90 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective and (ii) the date on which a Broker-Dealer is no longer required to deliver a prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities.
The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to Broker-Dealers promptly upon request at any time during such 90-day (or shorter as provided in the foregoing sentence) period in order to facilitate such resales.
SECTION 4. .
Shelf Registration
(a) If (i) the Company is not required to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with) or (ii) any holder of Entitled Securities notifies the Company prior to the 20
Shelf Registration.
th
Business Day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that (A) such Holder is prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer, or (B) such Holder may not resell the Exchange Securities acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder, or (C) such Holder is a Broker-Dealer and holds Initial Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its affiliates, then, upon such Holder's request, the Company and the Guarantors shall
(x) use all commercially reasonable efforts to file a Shelf Registration Statement, which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement") with the Commission on or prior to 90 days after such filing obligation arises (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) (such date being the "Shelf Filing Deadline"); provided that the Company shall not be required to file a Shelf Registration Statement solely as a result of Section 4(a)(i) prior to 365 days after the Closing Date (or if such 365
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); and
 
(y) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to 90 days after the Shelf Filing Deadline (or if such 90th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day).
Each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities by the Holders of Entitled Securities entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least one year following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement (or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Initial Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement) or there are no Entitled Securities outstanding that are to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, at any time, the Company may delay the filing of any Shelf Registration Statement or delay or suspend the effectiveness thereof, for a reasonable period of time, but not in excess of 60 consecutive days or 90 days in total during any calendar year, if the Board of Directors of the Company determines reasonably and in good faith that the filing of any such Shelf Registration Statement or the continuing effectiveness thereof would require the disclosure of material non-public information that, in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company, would be detrimental to the Company if so disclosed or would otherwise materially adversely affect a financing, acquisition, disposition, merger or other material transaction or such action is required by applicable law.
(b) No Holder of Entitled Securities may include any of its Entitled Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 10 Business Days after receipt of a request therefor, such information as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
SECTION 5. Special Interest.
IF (I) THE ISSUER AND THE GUARANTORS FAIL TO FILE ANY OF THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS REQUIRED BY THIS AGREEMENT ON OR BEFORE THE DATE SPECIFIED FOR SUCH FILING, (II) ANY OF SUCH REGISTRATION STATEMENTS IS NOT DECLARED EFFECTIVE BY THE COMMISSION ON OR PRIOR TO THE DATE SPECIFIED FOR SUCH EFFECTIVENESS (THE "EFFECTIVENESS TARGET DATE"), (III) THE ISSUER AND THE GUARANTORS FAIL TO CONSUMMATE THE EXCHANGE OFFER WITHIN 30 BUSINESS DAYS OF THE EFFECTIVENESS TARGET DATE WITH RESPECT TO THE EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION STATEMENT OR (IV) THE SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT OR THE EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION STATEMENT IS DECLARED EFFECTIVE BUT THEREAFTER CEASES TO BE EFFECTIVE OR USABLE IN CONNECTION WITH RESALES OF ENTITLED SECURITIES DURING THE PERIODS SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT (EACH SUCH EVENT REFERRED TO IN CLAUSES (I) THROUGH (IV) ABOVE, A "
REGISTRATION DEFAULT
") AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES FOR SUCH REGISTRATION DEFAULT, THE ISSUER AND THE GUARANTORS AGREE TO PAY HOLDERS OF ENTITLED SECURITIES SPECIAL INTEREST OF 0.25% PER ANNUM DURING THE FIRST 90-DAY PERIOD IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE OCCURRENCE OF ANY REGISTRATION DEFAULT. THE AMOUNT OF SPECIAL INTEREST WILL INCREASE BY 0.25% PER ANNUM WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUBSEQUENT 90-DAY PERIOD UNTIL ALL REGISTRATION DEFAULTS HAVE BEEN CURED, UP TO A MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF SPECIAL INTEREST FOR ALL REGISTRATION DEFAULTS OF 1.0% PER ANNUM OF THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF THE ENTITLED SECURITIES OUTSTANDING. FOLLOWING THE CURE OF ALL REGISTRATION DEFAULTS, THE ACCRUAL OF SPECIAL INTEREST WILL CEASE. SPECIAL INTEREST WILL ACCRUE AND BE PAYABLE ONLY WITH RESPECT TO A SINGLE REGISTRATION DEFAULT AT ANY GIVEN TIME, NOTWITHSTANDING THE FACT THAT MULTIPLE REGISTRATION DEFAULTS MAY EXIST AT SUCH TIME. THE ACCRUAL OF SPECIAL INTEREST SHALL BE THE EXCLUSIVE MONETARY REMEDY AVAILABLE TO THE HOLDERS OF ENTITLED SECURITIES FOR ANY REGISTRATION DEFAULT, AND A REGISTRATION DEFAULT SHALL NOT CONSTITUTE A DEFAULT UNDER THE INDENTURE.
All obligations of the Company and the Guarantors set forth in the preceding paragraph that are outstanding with respect to any Entitled Security at the time such security ceases to be an Entitled Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security shall have been satisfied in full.
SECTION 6. .
Registration Procedures
(a) In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall comply with all of the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof, shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to effect such exchange to permit the sale of Entitled Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions:
Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(i) If in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company there is a question as to whether the Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable law, each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the Commission allowing the Company and the Guarantors to Consummate an Exchange Offer for such Initial Securities. Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees to pursue the issuance of such a decision to the Commission staff level but shall not be required to take action to effect a change of Commission policy. Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees, however, to (A) participate in telephonic conferences with the Commission, (B) deliver to the Commission staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer should be permitted and (C) diligently pursue a favorable resolution by the Commission staff of such submission.
 
(ii) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Entitled Securities shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation thereof, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Securities in its ordinary course of business. In addition, all such Holders of Entitled Securities shall otherwise cooperate in the Company's preparations for the Exchange Offer. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available June 5, 1991) and (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (which may include any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above), and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction should be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Exchange Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Initial Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company.
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
(b) In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof and shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Entitled Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and pursuant thereto each of the Company and the Guarantors will promptly prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form shall be available for the sale of the Entitled Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof.
Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(c) In connection with any Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Entitled Securities (including, without limitation, any Registration Statement and the related Prospectus required to permit resales of Initial Securities by Broker-Dealers), each of the Company and the Guarantors shall:
General Provisions.
(i) use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements (including, if required by the Securities Act or any regulation thereunder, financial statements of the Guarantors for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable); and upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Entitled Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such material misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as practicable thereafter;
(ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Entitled Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply with the applicable provisions of Rules 424 and 430A under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
(iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, advise the underwriter(s), if any, and selling Holders promptly and, if requested by such Persons, to confirm such advice in writing, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Entitled Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading. If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Entitled Securities under state securities or blue sky laws, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
 
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, furnish without charge to each of the Initial Purchasers, each selling Holder named in such Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of such Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review and comment by counsel to such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least five Business Days, and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which such counsel or the underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object in writing within five Business Days after the receipt thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of telecopy transmission within such period). The objection of counsel or an underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to be reasonable if such Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains a material misstatement or omission;
(v) in the case of an Underwritten Offering, make the Company's and the Guarantors' representatives available for discussion of customary due diligence matters;
(vi) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, make available at reasonable times for inspection by the Initial Purchasers, the managing underwriter(s), if any, participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and any attorney or accountant retained by such Initial Purchasers or any of the underwriter(s), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of each of the Company and the Guarantors reasonably requested to be made available and cause the Company's and the Guarantors' officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness and to participate in meetings with investors to the extent requested by the managing underwriter(s), if any, in each case, as shall be reasonably necessary to enable such persons to conduct an investigation within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act; provided, however, that any information that is reasonably and in good faith designated by the Company in writing as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by the Initial Purchasers or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or other agent, unless (1) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (2) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of such Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus), (3) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard such information by such person or (4) such information becomes available to such Initial Purchaser, underwriter, attorney, accountant or other agent from a source other than the Company and such source is not known, after due inquiry, by the relevant Initial Purchaser, underwriter, attorney, accountant or other agent to be bound by a confidentiality agreement or is not otherwise under a duty of trust to the Company;
 
(vii) in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, if requested by any selling Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, promptly incorporate in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such selling Holders and underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Entitled Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Entitled Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Entitled Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
(viii) use commercially reasonable efforts to confirm that the ratings assigned to the Initial Securities will apply to the Entitled Securities covered by the Registration Statement, if so requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Entitled Securities covered thereby or the underwriter(s), if any;
(ix) deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Entitled Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
 
(x) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement), and make such representations and warranties, and take all such other actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Entitled Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, all to such extent as may be reasonably requested by any Initial Purchaser or by any Holder of Entitled Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement; and whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an Underwritten Registration, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall:
(A) furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement:
(1) a certificate, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement signed by (y) the President or any Vice President and (z) a principal financial or accounting officer of each of the Company and the Guarantors, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 5(e) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
(2) an opinion, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors, covering the matters set forth in Section 5(c) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matter as such parties may reasonably request, and in any event including a statement to the effect that such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company and the Guarantors, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company and the Guarantors, representatives of the underwriter(s), if any, and counsel to the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the preparation of such Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and have considered the matters required to be stated therein and the statements contained therein, although such counsel has not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements; and that such counsel advises that, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts came to such counsel's attention that caused such counsel to believe that such Shelf Registration Statement, at the time such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus contained in such Shelf Registration Statement as of its date contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. Without limiting the foregoing, such counsel may state further that such counsel assumes no responsibility for, and has not independently verified, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the financial statements, notes and schedules and other financial data included in any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement or the related Prospectus; and
 
(3) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily requested to be covered in comfort letters by underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and covering or affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Purchase Agreement;
(B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and
(C) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by such parties to evidence compliance with Section 6(c)(x)(A) hereof and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Guarantors pursuant to this Section 6(c)(x), if any.
If at any time the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contemplated in Section 6(c)(x)(A)(1) hereof cease to be true and correct, the Company or the Guarantors shall so advise the Initial Purchasers and the underwriter(s), if any, and each selling Holder promptly and, if requested by such Persons, shall confirm such advice in writing;
(xi) prior to any public offering of Entitled Securities, cooperate with the selling Holders, the underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Entitled Securities under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Entitled Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement; , , that neither the Company nor the Guarantors shall be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided
however
(xii) shall issue, upon the request of any Holder of Initial Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, Exchange Securities having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Exchange Securities to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Exchange Securities, as the case may be; in return, the Initial Securities held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation;
 
(xiii) cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of global certificates representing Entitled Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Entitled Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least two Business Days prior to any sale of Entitled Securities made by such Holders or underwriter(s);
(xiv) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Entitled Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter(s), if any, to consummate the disposition of such Entitled Securities, subject to the proviso contained in Section 6(c)(xii) hereof;
(xv) if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Entitled Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading;
(xvi) provide a CUSIP number for all Securities not later than the effective date of the Registration Statement covering such Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for such Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company and take all other action necessary to ensure that all such Securities are eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company;
(xvii) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter" as the term is defined within the rules and regulations of FINRA) that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA;
(xviii) otherwise use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 under the Securities Act (which need not be audited) for the twelve-month period (A) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Entitled Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts Underwritten Offering or (B) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement; and
 
(xix) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders of Securities to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and to execute and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
Each Holder agrees by acquisition of an Entitled Security that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Entitled Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xv) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "Advice") by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus. If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Entitled Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof to and including the date when each selling Holder covered by such Registration Statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xv) hereof or shall have received the Advice; , , that no such extension shall be taken into account in determining whether Special Interest is due pursuant to Section 5 hereof or the amount of such Special Interest, it being agreed that the Company's option to suspend use of a Registration Statement pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a Registration Default for purposes of Section 5 hereof.
provided
however
SECTION 7. .
Registration Expenses
(a) All expenses incident to the Company's and the Guarantors' performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including, without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings made by any Initial Purchaser or Holder with FINRA (and, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" and its counsel that may be required by the rules and regulations of FINRA)); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state securities or blue sky laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, the Guarantors and, subject to Section 7(b) hereof, the Holders of Entitled Securities; and (v) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance); provided that all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Holder's Entitled Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement shall be the responsibility of each Holder.
 
Each of the Company and the Guarantors will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company or the Guarantors.
(b) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will reimburse the Initial Purchasers and the Holders of Entitled Securities being registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who shall be Sidley Austin or such other counsel as may be chosen by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Entitled Securities for whose benefit such Registration Statement is being prepared.
LLP
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Holder and (ii) each Person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) any Holder (any of the Persons referred to in this clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as a "controlling person") and (iii) the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, affiliates representatives and agents of any Holder or any controlling person (any Person referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) may hereinafter be referred to as an "Indemnified Holder"), to the fullest extent lawful, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including, without limitation, and as incurred, reimbursement of all reasonable costs of investigating, preparing, pursuing, settling, compromising, paying or defending any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to any Indemnified Holder), joint or several, directly or indirectly caused by, related to, based upon, arising out of or in connection with any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders expressly for use therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which the Company or any of the Guarantors may otherwise have.
 
In case any action or proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation or proceeding) shall be brought or asserted against any of the Indemnified Holders with respect to which indemnity may be sought against the Company or the Guarantors, such Indemnified Holder (or the Indemnified Holder controlled by such controlling person) shall promptly notify the Company and the Guarantors in writing; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve any of the Company or the Guarantors of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced by such failure. In case any such action is brought against any Indemnified Holder and such Indemnified Holder seeks or intends to seek indemnity from the Company or the Guarantors, the Company and the Guarantors will be entitled to participate in and, to the extent that any of them shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the Indemnified Holder promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such Indemnified Holder, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Holder; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the Indemnified Holder and the Company or the Guarantors and the Indemnified Holder shall have reasonably concluded (based on the advice of counsel) that a conflict may arise between the positions of the Company or the Guarantors and the Indemnified Holder in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it or other Indemnified Holders that are different from or additional to those available to the Company or the Guarantors, the Indemnified Holder or Holders shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such Indemnified Holder or Holders. Upon receipt of notice from the Company or the Guarantors to such Indemnified Holder of the Company's or the Guarantor's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the Indemnified Holder of counsel, neither the Company nor the Guarantors will be liable to such Indemnified Holder under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such Indemnified Holder in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the Indemnified Holder shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the Company and the Guarantors shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (together with local counsel), approved by the Company or the Guarantors as the case may be, representing the Indemnified Holders who are parties to such action) or (ii) the Company or the Guarantors shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the Indemnified Holder to represent the Indemnified Holder within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the Company and the Guarantors. The Company and the Guarantors shall not, in connection with any one such action or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Holders. Each Indemnified Holder, as a condition to indemnification hereunder, shall use all reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Company and the Guarantors in the defense of any such action or claim. The Company and the Guarantors shall not be liable for any settlement of any such action or proceeding effected without their prior written consent, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably, but if settled with such consent or there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Company and the Guarantors agree to indemnify and hold harmless any Indemnified Holder from and against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. The Company and the Guarantors shall not, without the prior written consent of each Indemnified Holder, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in or otherwise seek to terminate any pending or threatened action, claim, litigation or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not any Indemnified Holder is a party thereto), unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes an unconditional release of each Indemnified Holder from all liability arising out of such action, claim, litigation or proceeding.
provided
however
 
(b) Each Holder of Entitled Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors and their respective directors or officers who sign a Registration Statement, and any Person controlling (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company or any of the Guarantors, and the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, affiliates, representatives and agents of each such Person, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company and the Guarantors to each of the Indemnified Holders, but only with respect to claims and actions based on information relating to such Holder furnished in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement. In case any action or proceeding shall be brought against the Company, the Guarantors or their respective directors or officers or any such controlling person in respect of which indemnity may be sought against a Holder of Entitled Securities, such Holder shall have the rights and duties given the Company and the Guarantors, and the Company, the Guarantors, their respective directors and officers and such controlling person shall have the rights and duties given to each Holder by the preceding paragraph.
(c) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an indemnified party under Section 8(a) or (b) hereof (other than by reason of exceptions provided in those Sections) in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to therein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement (which in the case of the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to be equal to the total gross proceeds to the Company and the Guarantors from the Initial Placement), the amount of Special Interest which did not become payable as a result of the filing of the Registration Statement resulting in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments actions or expenses, and such Registration Statement, or if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Indemnified Holder on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or any of the Guarantors, on the one hand, or the Indemnified Holders, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in the second paragraph of Section 8(a) hereof, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
The Company, the Guarantors and each Holder of Entitled Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(c) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, none of the Holders (and its related Indemnified Holders) shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount received by such Holder with respect to the Initial Securities exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(c) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Initial Securities held by each of the Holders hereunder and not joint.
SECTION 9. Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Entitled Securities remain outstanding, if the Company is no longer required to file reports under the Exchange Act, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Entitled Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Entitled Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Entitled Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A.
SECTION 10. No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Entitled Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
Participation in Underwritten Registrations.
SECTION 11. The Holders of Entitled Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Entitled Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) that will administer such offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Entitled Securities included in such offering; , , that such investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) must be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
Selection of Underwriters.
provided
however
 
SECTION 12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.
Remedies.
(b) Each of the Company and the Guarantors will not on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors has previously entered into any agreement granting any registration rights with respect to its securities to any Person. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's or any of the Guarantors securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
(c) The Company will not take any action, or permit any change to occur, with respect to the Securities that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Holders to Consummate any Exchange Offer.
Adjustments Affecting the Securities.
(d) The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 12(d)(i), obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Entitled Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Entitled Securities affected thereby (excluding any Entitled Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Entitled Securities being tendered or registered; , , that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser with respect to which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver, consent or departure is to be effective.
Amendments and Waivers.
provided
however
(e) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices.
(i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and
 
(ii) if to the Company as the Guarantors:
If to the Company or the Guarantors:
Dean Foods Company
2711 North Haskell Ave., Suite 3400
Dallas, Texas 75204
Facsimile: 214-303-4713
Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to:
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
1875 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20006
Facsimile: 202-663-6363
Attention: Erika L. Robinson
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
(f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without limitation, and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders of Entitled Securities; , , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Entitled Securities from such Holder.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
however
(g) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(h) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
(i) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
 
(j) In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
(k) This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Entitled Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
 
 
 
 


