FILE:DF/DF-8K-20110520112134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Dean Foods Company (the "Company") held on May 19, 2011 (the "2011 Annual Meeting"), the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Dean Foods Company 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") which increased the shares available for grant by 2,340,000 shares, of which 1,350,000 shares may be used for grants of awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights. A description of the material terms and conditions of the 2007 Plan, and the awards intended to be made to named executive officers thereunder, are described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2011, an excerpt of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and which description is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the 2011 Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders voted on the following proposals with the following results:
1. The following nominees were elected to the Company's Board of Directors as Class I directors for three-year terms.
 
2. A proposal to amend the Company's 2007 Plan to increase the number of shares available for grant by 2.34 million shares was approved.
 
3. A non-binding, advisory proposal on the Company's executive compensation was approved.
 
4. The stockholders recommended, in a non-binding, advisory vote, that future advisory votes on the Company's executive compensation should be held every year.
 
5. The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 was ratified.
 
6. A stockholder proposal urging the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors to adopt a policy limiting tax gross-ups for our senior executives was not approved.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The following is a summary of the 2007 Plan. For a more complete understanding of the 2007 Plan, please refer to the entire text of the 2007 Plan, which is attached to this Proxy Statement as .
Appendix A
The purposes of the 2007 Plan are to attract and retain non-employee directors, consultants, executive personnel and other key employees of outstanding ability, to motivate them by means of performance-related incentives and to enable them to participate in our growth and financial success. Eligibility to participate in the 2007 Plan is limited to our non-employee directors, consultants and employees (including officers and directors who are employees), and the non-employee directors, consultants and employees of our subsidiaries.
The 2007 Plan is administered by our Compensation Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors. The Compensation Committee determines, from time to time, the specific persons to whom awards under the 2007 Plan are granted, the extent of any such awards and the terms and conditions of each award. The Compensation Committee has delegated limited authority to grant awards to the Chief Executive Officer and two designated Executive Vice Presidents, but only with respect to individuals who are not executive officers of the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the 2007 Plan, the Compensation Committee or its designee makes all other necessary decisions and interpretations under the 2007 Plan.
Under the 2007 Plan, the Compensation Committee may grant awards of various types of equity-based compensation, including stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and other types of stock-based awards. The maximum number of shares that were available to be awarded under the 2007 Plan, as amended by our stockholders in 2009, was ten million shares of common stock of the Company, plus any shares that were remaining for issuance under the 1997 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan and the 1989 Stock Awards Plan (collectively referred to as the "Old Plans"). The maximum number of shares of our common stock that may be issued under the 2007 Plan with respect to incentive stock options may not exceed one million shares. In addition, no participant may be granted awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units covering an aggregate of more than one million shares in any calendar year and no participant may be granted stock options and SARs on more than one million shares of our common stock in any calendar year under the 2007 Plan. No more than $5,000,000 may be paid to any one participant with respect to cash-based awards made during a calendar year under the 2007 Plan.
Performance Shares and Performance Units; Performance Awards; Performance Criteria
The Compensation Committee may grant awards of performance shares or performance units under the 2007 Plan based upon the achievement of specified performance objectives or the occurrence of other events, such as a change in control, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion. The Compensation Committee has the authority to determine other terms and conditions of the performance shares and performance units. The Compensation Committee may also grant performance awards under the 2007 Plan. Performance awards may be payable in cash or in shares of common stock, and may relate to a single-year performance period, such as an annual bonus award, or multi-year periods.
The Compensation Committee may establish performance goals applicable to any award, including performance awards, performance shares and performance units. When establishing a performance goal, the Compensation Committee will determine the performance period over which performance against the goal will be measured and the amount of cash or number or value of shares earned based on the level of the performance goal achieved. Additional provisions relating to (i) establishing the performance goal, (ii) certifying achievement of performance against the goal and the amount earned, and (iii) the ability to use negative discretion to reduce the amount earned apply to awards made to executive officers, are intended to meet the tax deductibility rules for "performance-based" compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
The 2007 Plan provides that the Compensation Committee may base the performance goals upon the relative or comparative attainment of one or more of the following performance criteria (whether in absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more similarly situated companies or a published index covering
the performance of a number of companies): total stockholder return, stock price, operating earnings or margins, net earnings, return on equity, income, market share, return on investment, return on capital employed, level of expenses, revenue, cash flow and, in the case of persons who are not executive officers, such other criteria as may be determined by the Compensation Committee. Performance criteria may be established on a Company-wide basis or with respect to one or more business units or divisions or subsidiaries. When establishing performance criteria for a performance period, the Compensation Committee may exclude any or all charges or costs associated with restructurings of the Company or any subsidiary, mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, discontinued operations, other unusual or non-recurring items, the cumulative effects of accounting changes or such other objective factors as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate. Beginning in 2010, the Compensation Committee began granting awards pursuant to a performance cash plan. See "Compensation Discussion and AnalysisLong-Term Incentive CompensationPerformance Cash Plan" for more information on this plan.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
The Compensation Committee may grant awards of restricted stock and restricted stock units under the 2007 Plan. The restricted stock and restricted stock units are forfeitable until they vest. Prior to 2009, the Compensation Committee granted restricted stock and restricted stock units that generally vested ratably over five years on each anniversary of the date of grant (subject to the participant's continued service with us) or upon satisfaction of any additional conditions to vesting, such as the achievement of specified performance objectives or changes in control, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion. Beginning in 2009, grants of restricted stock units generally vest ratably over three years on each anniversary of the date of grant. In general, if a participant's service is terminated by reason of death, disability or retirement during the restricted period, any restricted stock or restricted stock units held by the participant will vest as of the date of termination. If a participant's service is terminated for any other reason, any restricted stock or restricted stock units held by the participant will be immediately forfeited and canceled (unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee or provided in an employment or individual severance agreement), and, in any event, all such restricted stock and restricted stock units will be immediately forfeited and canceled upon termination of service for cause.
Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
The Compensation Committee may grant awards of stock options and SARs under the 2007 Plan. The stock options may be either "incentive stock options" (as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code), which provide the recipient with favorable tax treatment, or stock options that are not incentive stock options ("non-qualified stock options"). The Compensation Committee has the authority to determine the terms and conditions of the stock options, including the number of shares subject to each stock option and SAR, the exercise price per share, which must be at least the fair market value of a share of our common stock on the date of grant (as determined in accordance with the 2007 Plan), and when the stock option or SAR will become exercisable. Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, the stock options and SARs will vest and become exercisable in three approximately equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant. Stock options and SARs may also become exercisable upon satisfaction of any additional conditions to vesting, such as the achievement of specified performance objectives or changes in control, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion. The exercise period for any stock options and SARs awarded under the 2007 Plan may not extend beyond ten years from the date of grant.
Stock options and SARs awarded under the 2007 Plan that vest and become exercisable may be exercised in whole or in part. The exercise price of a stock option award may be paid either in cash or cash equivalents or, if permitted by the Compensation Committee, with previously acquired shares of our common stock, by means of a brokered cashless exercise or by a combination of the foregoing provided that the consideration tendered, valued as of the date tendered, is at least equal to the exercise price for the stock options being exercised. Additionally, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, stock options may be "net exercised," that is, the excess, if any, of the full market value of the shares being exercised at the date of exercise over the exercise price for such shares will be delivered in shares without any requirement that the participant pay the exercise price.
Stock appreciation rights, or SARs, are similar to stock options, except that no exercise price is required to be paid. Upon exercise of a SAR, the participant will receive payment equal to the increase in the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date of exercise over the exercise price (fair market value on date of grant) times the number of shares as to which the SAR is being exercised. The payment will be made in cash or shares of common stock of equivalent value.
Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee or provided for in an employment or individual severance agreement, if a participant's service is terminated by reason of death, disability or retirement, all stock options and SARs held by the participant at the date of termination will vest and become exercisable and will remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) the first anniversary of such termination (or, for incentive stock options, the first anniversary of such termination) or (ii) the expiration date of the stock option or SAR. If a participant's service is terminated for any other reason, any stock options held by the participant that have not vested and become exercisable will be immediately canceled and any stock options that have vested and become exercisable will remain exercisable for 90 days following such termination. In any event, all stock options and SARs (whether or not then vested and exercisable) will be immediately canceled upon termination of service for cause.
Other Stock-Based Awards
The 2007 Plan permits the Compensation Committee to grant other forms of stock-based awards with such terms and conditions as the Compensation Committee determines, including provisions relating to the impact of termination of service and a change in control. Such awards may include grants of shares without restriction or awards structured to meet the requirements of non-U.S. law or practice. Such awards may be settled by the issuance of shares or by a cash payment equal to the value of the shares earned under the award. For fiscal 2011, the Compensation Committee granted phantom shares with three-year ratable vesting for employees at the Vice President level and below. For more information on these awards, see "Compensation Discussion and AnalysisChanges to Long-Term Incentive Compensation Effective in 2011."
Change in Control
Except as otherwise provided in an employment or individual severance agreement or award agreement, upon a change in control (as defined in the 2007 Plan) of the Company, (i) all outstanding stock options and SARs will immediately vest and become exercisable; (ii) the restricted period of all outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units will immediately lapse; (iii) all deferred cash and phantom share awards will immediately vest; and (iv) each outstanding performance share and performance unit will be canceled in exchange for the greater of (a) target or (b) actual performance to date. In addition, the Compensation Committee may provide that in connection with a change in control:
 
 
If a change in control occurs as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, any participant whose service is involuntarily terminated (other than for cause) on or after the date on which our stockholders approve the transaction giving rise to the change in control will be treated for purposes of the 2007 Plan as continuing service with us until the consummation of the change in control. For purposes of the 2007 Plan, such participant will be treated as if terminated immediately after the consummation of the change in control.
Amendment and Termination
The Board may terminate or suspend the 2007 Plan at any time and, from time to time, may amend or modify the 2007 Plan, provided that without the approval by a majority of the votes cast at a duly constituted meeting of stockholders, no amendment or modification to the 2007 Plan may (i) materially increase the benefits accruing to participants under the 2007 Plan, (ii) except as a result of an adjustment in capitalization or similar adjustments, materially increase the number of shares of stock subject to awards under the 2007 Plan or the number of awards or amount of cash that may be granted to a participant under the 2007 Plan, (iii) materially modify the requirements for participation in the 2007 Plan, or (iv) materially modify the 2007 Plan in any way that would require stockholder approval under any regulatory requirement that the Compensation Committee determines to be applicable. Consequently, the 2007 Plan cannot be amended to permit the grant of stock options or SARs at exercise prices that are below fair market value without shareholder approval. No amendment, modification or termination of the 2007 Plan shall in any material way adversely affect any award previously granted under the 2007 Plan without the consent of the participant. The 2007 Plan shall continue in effect, unless sooner terminated by the Board, until March 1, 2017, the tenth anniversary of the date on which the 2007 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors, after which time no additional awards may be granted.
Summary of Federal Tax Consequences
The following is a brief description of the federal income tax treatment that generally applies to 2007 Plan awards. The description is based on current federal tax laws, rules and regulations, which are subject to change, and does not purport to be a complete description of the federal income tax aspects of the 2007 Plan. A participant may also be subject to state, local and foreign taxes.
 The grant of a non-qualified stock option will not result in taxable income to the participant. The participant will realize ordinary income at the time of exercise in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the then fair market value of the stock acquired over the exercise price for those shares, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Gains or losses realized by the participant upon disposition of such shares will be treated as capital gains or losses, with the basis in such stock equal to the fair market value of the shares at the time of exercise.
Non-Qualified Stock Options.
 The grant of an incentive stock option will not result in taxable income to the participant. The exercise of an incentive stock option will not result in taxable income to the participant if the participant was, without a break in service, employed by us or an affiliate from the date of the grant of the option until the date three months prior to the date of exercise (one year prior to the date of exercise if the participant is disabled). The excess, if any, of the fair market value of the stock at the time of the exercise over the exercise price is an adjustment that is included in the calculation of the participant's alternative minimum taxable income for the tax year in which the incentive stock option is exercised.
Incentive Stock Options.
If the participant does not sell or otherwise dispose of the stock within two years from the date of the grant of the incentive stock option or within one year after the transfer of such stock to the participant, then, upon disposition of such stock, any amount realized in excess of the exercise price will be taxed to the participant as capital gain, and we will not be entitled to a corresponding deduction. A capital loss will be recognized to the extent that the amount realized is less than the exercise price. If the foregoing holding period requirements are not met, the participant will generally realize ordinary income at the time of the disposition of the shares, in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the stock on the date of exercise over the exercise price, or (ii) the excess, if any, of the amount realized upon disposition of the shares over the exercise price, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. If the amount realized exceeds the value of the shares on the date of exercise, the additional amount will be capital gain. If the amount realized is less than the exercise price, the participant will recognize no income, and a capital loss will be recognized equal to the excess of the exercise price over the amount realized upon the disposition of the shares.
 The grant of a stock appreciation right will not result in taxable income to the participant. The participant will realize ordinary income at the time of exercise in an amount equal to the amount of cash or the fair market value of the shares paid upon exercise, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Gains or losses realized by the participant upon disposition of any shares received will be treated as capital gains or losses, with the basis in such stock equal to the fair market value of the shares at the time of exercise.
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 A grant of restricted stock or performance shares will not result in taxable income to the participant at the time of grant, and we will not be entitled to a corresponding deduction, assuming that the shares are subject to transferability restrictions and that certain restrictions on the shares constitute a "substantial risk of forfeiture" for federal income tax purposes. Upon vesting, the holder will realize ordinary income in an amount equal to the then fair market value of the vested shares, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Gains or losses realized by the participant upon subsequent disposition of such shares will be treated as capital gains or losses, with the basis in such shares equal to the fair market value of the shares at the time of vesting. Dividends paid to the holder of restricted stock during the restricted period also will be compensation income to the participant, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction when the dividends no longer are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or become transferable. A participant may elect, pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code, to have income recognized at the date a restricted stock award or performance share award, as the case may be, is granted and to have the applicable capital gain holding period commence as of that date. In such a case, we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock and Performance Shares.
 A grant of restricted stock units or performance units will not result in taxable income to the participant at the time of grant, and we will not be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Upon vesting and issuance of the underlying shares, the holder will realize ordinary income in an amount equal to the then fair market value of the issued shares, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Gains or losses realized by the participant upon disposition of such shares will be treated as capital gains or losses, with the basis in such shares equal to the fair market value of the shares at the time of vesting and issuance. Dividend equivalents paid to the holder of restricted stock units during the restricted period also will be compensation income to the participant, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction when the dividend equivalents are paid. No election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code may be made with respect to restricted stock units and performance units.
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Units.
 The grant of phantom shares will not result in taxable income to the participant. Phantom shares are settled in cash, and the participant will realize ordinary income at the time of vesting in an amount equal to the cash value of the closing sales price of Dean Foods stock on the vesting date, multiplied by the number of shares vesting, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction.
Phantom Shares.
 A grant of a performance award or other stock-based award will not result in taxable income to the participant at the time of grant, and we will not be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Upon payment of cash or the vesting or issuance of the underlying shares, the participant will realize ordinary income in an amount equal to the cash received or the then fair market value of the issued shares, and we will be entitled to a corresponding deduction. Gains or losses realized by the participant upon subsequent disposition of such shares will be treated as capital gains or losses, with the basis in such shares equal to the fair market value of the shares at the time of vesting and issuance.
Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
 With respect to certain executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, the amount of compensation payments that may be deducted by us in any given taxable year may be limited to $1 million, regardless of whether we would otherwise be entitled to a deduction for such payments. This limit does not apply to performance-based compensation that satisfies certain conditions. The 2007 Plan has been designed so that stock options, SARs, performance awards, performance shares and performance units as well as other performance-based cash plans, such as our short-term incentive and retention plans, can be awarded in a manner that should satisfy the applicable conditions and be deductible on the same basis as applies to all employees generally. Other types of non-performance based awards may not qualify for this performance-based exception to the deduction limit.
Section 162(m).
 Section 409A of the Code may cause certain deferred compensation amounts to be deemed currently taxable and at a rate of income taxation at least 20% higher than would otherwise apply to such amounts if the conditions specified in that Section are not satisfied. It is intended that any amounts awarded pursuant to the 2007 Plan that are treated as deferred compensation for purposes of such Section shall be administered in a manner intended to comply with such requirements, to the extent applicable to such compensation.
Section 409A.
 As a condition to the delivery of any shares to the recipient of an award, we may require the recipient to make arrangements for meeting certain tax withholding requirements in connection with the award.
Tax Withholding.
 As of February 24, 2011, approximately 582 persons were eligible to receive awards under the 2007 Plan, including our executive officers and non-employee directors. The grant of awards under the 2007 Plan is discretionary, and we cannot currently determine the number or type of awards to be granted in the future to any particular person or group. Please see the "Grants of Plan-Based Awards in Fiscal Year 2010" table on pages 63-64 of this Proxy Statement for information on awards granted to our Named Executive Officers in 2010. Historically, we have granted long-term equity incentive compensation to our Named Executive Officers based on a comparison of our total stockholder return to that of our peer group companies. Beginning with grants made in fiscal 2010, we benchmark our executive officers to similar positions within our Benchmark Peer Companies (as defined under "Compensation Discussion and AnalysisBenchmark Comparison Group for Executive Compensation Purposes") and grant at or around the 50
Plan Benefits.
th
 percentile of grants made to comparable officers at those companies. See "Compensation Discussion and AnalysisLong-Term Equity Incentive Compensation" for more information.


