Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Business Overview We are the worlds largest enterprise software company. We are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. Each of these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in United States dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than United States dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating segments follows. Software Business Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software license revenues and (2) software license updates and product support revenues. We expect that our software business revenues will continue to increase, which should allow us to improve margins and profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses: We license our database, middleware and applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products and acquisitions. The new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software revenues on a trailing 4 quarter period provides more visibility into the underlying fundamental performance of our software revenues than analysis of quarterly revenues. New software license margins have been affected by amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions. Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to maintain a first or second position in each of our software product categories and certain industry segments as well as to grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We believe that the features and functionality of our software products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products by improving integration, decreasing installation times, lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products provides our customers with a higher return on their investment, which we believe will create more demand and provide us with a competitive advantage. We have also continued to focus on improving the overall quality of our software products and service levels. We believe this will lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty and help us achieve our goal of becoming our customers leading technology advisor. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually, thereby eliminating the need to repurchase new software licenses when new upgrades are released. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is influenced by four factors: (1) the support contract base of companies acquired (2) the renewal rate of the support contract base, (3) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses and (4) inflationary support price increases. 22 Table of Contents Software license updates and product support revenues, which represent approximately 46% of our total revenues on a trailing 4 quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins over the last trailing 4 quarters were 89%, and account for 74% of our total margins over the same respective period. We believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will continue to grow for the following reasons: Acquisitions over the past two years have significantly increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed. Substantially all customers purchase license updates and product support subscriptions when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support subscription contract base. Even if license revenue growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow assuming renewal and cancellation rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions add to the support contract base. Substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal. When support contract renewals are negotiated, inflationary price increases are assessed, where applicable. We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business acquisitions to their estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $391 million and $320 million that would have been otherwise recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenue for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education revenues. Our services business, which represents 20% of our total revenues on a trailing 4 quarter basis, has significantly lower margins than our software business. Consulting: Consulting revenues tend to lag software revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after the purchase of new software licenses. Consulting revenues have been negatively impacted in recent periods for the following reasons: Continued attrition of personnel due to a demand for technical talent in certain markets, particularly in the United States. A shift in the mix of resources to lower cost countries, which has resulted in a decrease in average billing rates. Our decision to work more closely with partners who perform implementations of our software. Despite these trends, we expect consulting revenues to increase in fiscal 2007, primarily due to an increase in application implementations related to acquired products and the addition of personnel acquired from Siebel. On Demand: On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand software as a service and outsourcing offerings as well as Advanced Customer Services. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide an additional opportunity for customers to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. We will continue to make investments in Oracle On Demand to support current and future revenue growth, which may negatively impact future On Demand margins. Education: The purpose of our education services is to further enhance the usability of our software products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow software revenues. Education revenues have been impacted by personnel reductions in our customers information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. Despite these trends, we expect education revenues to increase in fiscal 2007, primarily due to an increase in customer training on the use of our acquired application products. 23 Table of Contents Operating Margins We continually focus on improving our operating margins by providing our customers with superior products and services as well as improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. As part of this effort, we continually evaluate our workforce and make adjustments where we deem appropriate. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure, but we believe that the fundamental shift towards globalization is crucial to maintaining a long term competitive cost structure. Acquisitions An active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. In the last two years, we have paid an aggregate of $19.5 billion for our acquisitions, which included the following: In January 2006, we acquired Siebel, a provider of customer relationship management software for approximately $6.1 billion. We completed the substantial majority of our planned legal entity mergers, information system conversions and integration of Siebels operations and expect to finalize all other planned integration activities in the next three months; In January 2005, we acquired PeopleSoft, a provider of enterprise application software products for approximately $11.1 billion. We completed our planned legal entity mergers, information system conversions and integration of PeopleSofts operations in the first half of fiscal 2006. We believe our recent acquisitions support our long term strategic direction, strengthen our competitive position, particularly in the applications market, expand our customer base and provide greater scale to increase our investment in research and development to accelerate innovation, increase stockholder value and grow our earnings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund additional acquisitions with our internally available cash and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our commercial paper program, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Business Combinations PeopleSoft Customer Assurance Program Goodwill Revenue Recognition 24 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes Legal Contingencies Stock Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Returns In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Business Combinations In accordance with business combination accounting, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as to in process research and development based on their estimated fair values. We engage third party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from license sales, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop the in process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the acquired companys brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In connection with purchase price allocations, we estimate the fair value of the support obligations assumed in connection with acquisitions. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build up approach. The cost build up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the software products acquired. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with selling effort is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded the selling effort on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. The estimated research and development costs are not included in the fair value determination, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $391 million and $320 million that would have been otherwise recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their contracts when the contract is eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenue for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Had we included our estimated selling and research and development activities, and the associated margin for unspecified product upgrades and enhancements to be provided under our assumed support arrangements, the fair value of the support obligations would have been significantly higher than what we have recorded and we would have recorded a higher amount of software license updates and product support revenue historically and in future periods related to these assumed contracts. 25 Table of Contents Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions include restructuring costs. Restructuring costs are primarily comprised of severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by management but which are subject to refinement. To estimate restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated with pre merger activities of the companies we acquire are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date) and as operating expenses thereafter. Changes in cost estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated with our pre merger activities are recorded in restructuring expenses. For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre acquisition contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period, we are able to determine the fair value of a pre acquisition contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation period, we are unable to determine the fair value of a pre acquisition contingency, we will evaluate whether to include an amount in the purchase price allocation based on whether it is probable a liability had been incurred and whether an amount can be reasonably estimated. After the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment that results from a pre acquisition contingency will be included in our operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined. PeopleSoft Customer Assurance Program As discussed in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in June 2003, in response to our tender offer, PeopleSoft implemented what it referred to as the customer assurance program or CAP. The CAP incorporated a provision in PeopleSofts standard licensing arrangement that purports contractually to burden Oracle, as a result of our acquisition of PeopleSoft, with a contingent obligation to make payments to PeopleSoft customers should we fail to take certain business actions for a fixed period, which typically expires four years from the date of the contract. We have concluded that, as of the date of the acquisition, the penalty provisions under the CAP represent a contingent liability of Oracle. We have not recorded a liability related to the CAP, as we do not believe it is probable that our post acquisition activities related to the PeopleSoft and JD Edwards product lines will trigger an obligation to make any payment pursuant to the CAP. The maximum potential penalty under the CAP as of May 31, 2006 was $3.5 billion. Unless the CAP provisions are removed from these licensing arrangements, we do not expect the aggregate potential CAP obligation to decline substantially until fiscal year 2008 when these provisions begin to expire. While no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of potential litigation, we believe we would also have substantial defenses with respect to the legality and enforceability of the CAP contract provisions in response to any claims seeking payment from Oracle under the CAP terms. If we determine in the future that a payment pursuant to the CAP is probable, the estimated liability would be recorded in our operating results in the period in which such liability is determined. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The provisions of Statement 142 require that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. 26 Table of Contents Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, did not result in an impairment charge. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from the following sources: (1) software, which includes new software license and software license updates and product support revenues, and (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and education revenues. New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the provisions of Statement of Position No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenue when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner. The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support, which are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. Software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase both software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as service transactions as defined in SOP 97 2. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenue should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenue is deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or not to exceed fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. We recognize no more than 90% of the milestone or total contract amount until project acceptance is obtained. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenue is recognized 27 Table of Contents when we receive final acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affect the amounts of revenue and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of the software license and consulting transactions, then new software license revenue is generally recognized together with the consulting services based on contract accounting using either the percentage of completion or completed contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license fees; (2) where services include significant modification or customization of the software; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software. Advanced Customer Services are earned by providing customers configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on site technical services. Revenues from On Demand services are recognized over the term of the service contract, which is generally one year. Education revenues include instructor led, media based and internet based training in the use of our products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered. For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately and for software license updates and product support services, is additionally measured by the renewal rate offered to the customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ significantly from our historical results. We defer revenue for any undelivered elements, and recognize revenue when the product is delivered or over the period in which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy for such element. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a delivered element has not been established, we use the residual method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with government entities when acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short term in nature, we provide for a sales return allowance in accordance with FASB Statement No. 48, Revenue Recognition when Right of Return Exists. If acceptance provisions are long term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement or if we cannot reasonably estimate the incidence of returns, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. 28 Table of Contents We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing fiscal funding or termination for convenience provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the essential use of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of non acceptance is remote, we then recognize revenue once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity. We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenue if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30; however, terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition. While most of our arrangements include short term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long term financing to credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non recourse basis to third party financing institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as true sales as defined in FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have licensed our software to these same companies (a Concurrent Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a three month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to be at arms length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenue from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we recognized new software license revenues of approximately $33 million from a supplier. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we negotiated to acquire goods and services from this supplier and finalized terms of the purchase. The value of the goods and services we will acquire from this supplier under this agreement will total approximately $20 million over the next five years. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic income and expense to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. 29 Table of Contents Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known. The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which our earnings or deductions are realized may differ from our current estimates. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. As part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the quarter the impairment is recorded. Amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets is generally not tax deductible; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non deductible amortization expense as part of the purchase price allocation. We have taken into account the allocation of these identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities. Income tax contingencies existing as of the acquisition dates of the acquired companies are evaluated quarterly and any adjustments are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill. Legal Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. 30 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation Up until May 31, 2006, we measured compensation expense for our stock based incentive programs using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. Under this method, we did not record compensation expense when stock options were granted to eligible participants as long as the exercise price was not less than the fair market value of the stock when the option was granted. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and FASB Statement No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, we disclosed our pro forma net income or loss and net income or loss per share as if the fair value based method had been applied in measuring compensation expense for our stock based incentive programs. We were required to adopt the provisions of FASB Statement 123(R), Share Based Payment, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Although the adoption of Statement 123(R)s fair value method has no adverse impact on our balance sheet or total cash flows, it affects our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. The actual effects of adopting Statement 123(R) will depend on numerous factors including the amounts of share based payments granted in the future, the valuation model we use to value future share based payments to employees and estimated forfeiture rates. We estimate that stock based compensation expense will reduce diluted earnings per share by $0.02 to $0.03 in fiscal 2007. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Returns We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are recorded at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable. In determining these percentages, we analyze our historical collection experience and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowance for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and the future results of operations could be materially affected. We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The fluctuations in operating results of Oracle in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 are generally due to acquisitions, principally our acquisition of PeopleSoft in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Siebel in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and Retek, Inc. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005, we quantify the contribution of PeopleSoft, Siebel and Retek products to growth in new software license revenues, the amount of revenues associated with PeopleSoft and Siebel software license updates and product support and On Demand services and present supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting where applicable. Although certain revenues were quantifiable, we are unable to identify consulting and education revenues of Siebel in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as well as allocate costs associated with the PeopleSoft and Siebel products and services in fiscal 2006 because the substantial majority of former PeopleSoft and Siebel sales and services personnel were fully integrated into our existing operations. We caution readers that, while pre and post acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the information has inherent limitations for the following reasons: The quantification cannot address the substantial effects attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in particular the effect of having a single sales force offer the Oracle and PeopleSoft product families on a neutral basis and the integration of Siebel into our CRM sales force. The commissions earned by our integrated sales force in these integrations did not vary based on the application product family sold. We believe that if our sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of Oracle, PeopleSoft and Siebel products sold would have been different. The acquisitions of PeopleSoft and Siebel did not result in our entering a new line of business or product category. Therefore, we provided multiple products with substantially similar features and functionality. Although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their contracts when the contract is eligible for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenue in our supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew. Constant Currency Presentation We compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this annual report using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and prior year results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the exchange rate in effect on May 31, 2005, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005, our financial statements would reflect revenues of $1.27 million in fiscal 2006 (using 1.27 as the exchange rate) and $1.25 million in fiscal 2005 (using 1.25 as the exchange rate). The constant currency presentation would translate the fiscal 2006 results using the fiscal 2005 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the periods. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual results as reported and based on constant currency. 32 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 7,652 32% 31% $ 5,798 16% 16% $ 4,983 EMEA(1) 4,708 10% 15% 4,288 17% 9% 3,677 Asia Pacific 2,020 18% 21% 1,713 15% 10% 1,496 Total revenues 14,380 22% 23% 11,799 16% 12% 10,156 Total Operating Expenses 9,644 24% 25% 7,777 24% 20% 6,292 Total Operating Margin $ 4,736 18% 20% $ 4,022 4% 1% $ 3,864 Total Operating Margin % 33% 34% 38% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 49% 49% EMEA 33% 36% 36% Asia Pacific 14% 15% 15% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 11,541 23% 24% $ 9,421 17% 13% $ 8,070 Services 2,839 19% 21% 2,378 14% 10% 2,086 Total revenues $ 14,380 22% 23% $ 11,799 16% 12% $ 10,156 % Revenues by Business: Software 80% 80% 79% Services 20% 20% 21% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2006 due to strong sales execution, incremental revenues from acquisitions and a strengthening in our competitive position. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 50% to the growth in total revenues, new software licenses contributed 32% and services revenues contributed 18%. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 65% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 22% and Asia Pacific contributed 13%. Total revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues from our acquired companies. Operating expenses were favorably affected by 1 percentage point as a result of the strengthening of the United States dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses is primarily due to higher headcount levels and associated personnel related costs in sales and marketing, consulting and research and development, higher commissions due to the increase in revenues and greater amortization of intangible assets, offset partially by lower restructuring and acquisition related expenses. Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues decreased slightly due to higher costs associated with acquisitions, principally amortization of intangible assets. International operations will continue to provide a significant portion of total revenues. As a result, total revenues and expenses will be affected by changes in the relative strength of the United States dollar against certain major international currencies. 33 Table of Contents Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total revenues reflects $685 million associated with PeopleSoft products and services as well as an increase in sales of our products and services resulting from improved sales execution as a result of product specialization, a strengthening in our competitive position and a stronger economy, particularly in the United States. Total revenues were favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations due to a weakening of the United States dollar against certain major international currencies, primarily the Euro, British Pound and Japanese Yen. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 61% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 27% and Asia Pacific contributed 12%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total operating expenses increased 20%. Operating expenses were unfavorably affected as a result of the weakening of the United States dollar relative to other major international currencies. Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues decreased from 38% to 34%. The decline in operating margins is primarily due to costs incurred as a result of the acquisition of PeopleSoft such as amortization of intangible assets, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs and stock based compensation resulting from the assumption of unvested PeopleSoft stock options. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Acquisition Accounting To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Readers are directed to the introduction under Results of Operations for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre and post acquisition information. The results of operations include the following purchase accounting adjustments and significant expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions: Year Ended May 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Support deferred revenue(1) $ 391 $ 320 $ Amortization of intangible assets(2) 583 219 36 Acquisition related charges(3) (5) 137 208 54 Restructuring(4) 85 147 Stock based compensation(5) 31 25 Income tax effect(6) (362 ) (264 ) (29 ) $ 865 $ 655 $ 61 (1) In connection with our purchase price allocations, we estimated the fair value of support obligations assumed in connection with business acquisitions made during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $391 and $320 that would have been otherwise recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed that will not be recognized due to the application of business combination accounting rules in future periods are as follows: Year Ended May 31, 2007 $ 137 2008 9 Total $ 146 To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenue for the full contract value over the support renewal period. 34 Table of Contents (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions, primarily PeopleSoft and Siebel. Estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets is as follows: Year Ended May 31, 2007 $ 738 2008 727 2009 722 2010 615 2011 431 Thereafter 1,295 Total $ 4,528 (3) Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock based compensation expenses and personnel related costs for transitional employees, as well as costs associated with our tender offer for PeopleSoft prior to the agreement date. (4) Restructuring costs relate to Oracle employee severance and facility closures in connection with restructuring plans initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005. (5) Stock based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations: Year Ended May 31, 2006 2005 2004 Sales and marketing $ 8 $ 6 $ Software license updates and product support 3 2 Cost of services 7 7 Research and development 13 10 Acquisition related charges 18 47 Total $ 49 $ 72 $ Stock based compensation included in acquisition related charges resulted from unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of these options. We adopted Statement 123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Statement 123(R) requires us to record the fair value amortization of all stock based compensation awards. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our adoption of Statement 123(R). (6) The income tax effect on purchase accounting adjustments and other significant expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions was calculated based on our effective tax rate of 29.7%, 28.8% and 32.0% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 35 Table of Contents Software Software includes new software licenses and software license updates and product support. New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Year Ended May 31, 2006 Percent Change 2005 Percent Change 2004 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant New Software License Revenues: Americas $ 2,323 29% 27% $ 1,805 21% 20% $ 1,490 EMEA 1,650 10% 14% 1,505 10% 3% 1,371 Asia Pacific 932 19% 22% 781 15% 11% 680 Total revenues 4,905 20% 21% 4,091 16% 12% 3,541 Expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 3,169 27% 27% 2,505 18% 14% 2,123 Stock based compensation 8 33% 33% 6 * * Amortization of intangible assets(2) 208 * * 59 * * 13 Total expenses 3,385 32% 33% 2,570 20% 17% 2,136 Total Margin $ 1,520 0% 2% $ 1,521 8% 4% $ 1,405 Total Margin % 31% 37% 40% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 47% 44% 42% EMEA 34% 37% 39% Asia Pacific 19% 19% 19% Revenues by Product: Database and middleware $ 3,566 9% 11% $ 3,265 13% 9% $ 2,893 Applications 1,303 66% 67% 785 28% 25% 615 Total revenues by product 4,869 20% 21% 4,050 15% 12% 3,508 Other revenues 36 13% 12% 41 24% 21% 33 Total new software license revenues $ 4,905 20% 21% $ 4,091 16% 12% $ 3,541 % Revenues by Product: Database and middleware 73% 81% 82% Applications 27% 19% 18% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * not meaningful 36 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues increased 21% due to strong sales execution in all product lines. Applications revenues contributed 60% to the increase in new software license revenues, database revenues contributed 26% and middleware revenues contributed 14% in fiscal 2006. Additionally, new software license revenues increased in all geographic regions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 57%, EMEA contributed 23% and Asia Pacific contributed 20% to the increase in new software license revenues. New software license revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues and location of sales personnel from our acquired companies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 11%. Database revenues increased 8% primarily driven by increased demand for database option products. Middleware revenues grew 36% due to a gain in market share in the application server market as a result of better sales execution and more competitive features and functionality. Middleware revenues also include $34 million of revenues from the licensing of Siebel products in fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, applications revenue increased 67% as a result of increased demand for our applications products, including products from acquired companies, better sales execution as a result of segmenting our sales force by product and a strengthening of our competitive position in the applications market, particularly in the United States and EMEA. PeopleSoft products contributed $220 million to the growth in applications revenue in fiscal 2006, Oracle products contributed $154 million, Siebel products contributed $103 million and Retek products contributed $41 million. New software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased from 40% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2005 to 45% in fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased due to higher commission expenses resulting from the growth in new software license revenues, higher personnel related expenditures primarily associated with our expanded sales force from acquired companies and higher advertising expenses. The total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to incremental amortization of intangible assets and higher compensation expenses. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues increased due to improved sales execution, a strengthening in our competitive position, a stronger economy, particularly in the United States, and revenues from the licensing of PeopleSoft products of $126 million. The increase in database and middleware new software license revenues was driven by a 23% increase in application server revenues and a 12% increase in database revenues. The increase in applications new software license revenues was primarily due to revenues from the licensing of PeopleSoft products, improved sales execution as a result of product specialization and increased demand for our products, particularly in North America. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 71%, EMEA contributed 12% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to the increase in new software license revenues. New software license revenues earned from large transactions, defined as new software license transactions over $0.5 million, increased from 37% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2004 to 40% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2005. Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to higher commission expenses that resulted from higher revenue levels, as well as higher personnel related costs associated with increased sales headcount. The total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues was negatively affected as a result of higher personnel related expenditures and amortization of intangible assets. 37 Table of Contents Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. The cost of providing support services consists largely of personnel related expenses. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Software License Updates and ProductSupport Revenues: Americas $ 3,790 37% 36% $ 2,759 15% 14% $ 2,407 EMEA 2,052 10% 15% 1,866 21% 13% 1,542 Asia Pacific 794 13% 16% 705 22% 17% 580 Total revenues 6,636 25% 26% 5,330 18% 14% 4,529 Expenses: Software license updates and product support(1) 716 16% 17% 616 13% 9% 547 Stock based compensation 3 15% 15% 2 * * Amortization of intangible assets(2) 351 * * 127 * * Total expenses 1,070 44% 45% 745 36% 32% 547 Total Margin $ 5,566 21% 23% $ 4,585 15% 11% $ 3,982 Total Margin % 84% 86% 88% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 52% 53% EMEA 31% 35% 34% Asia Pacific 12% 13% 13% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased 26% as a result of incremental revenues from the expansion of our customer base resulting from acquisitions, the renewal of substantially all of the subscription base eligible for renewal in the current year and the addition of software license updates and product support revenues associated with new software license revenues recognized over the past fiscal year. Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2006 include incremental revenues of $797 million from PeopleSoft contracts and $90 million from Siebel contracts. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 72% to the growth in software license updates and product support revenues, EMEA contributed 20% and Asia Pacific contributed 8%. Software license updates and product support revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues and existing support contract bases of our acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $391 million and $320 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when the contract is eligible for 38 Table of Contents renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenue for the full value of the contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Software license updates and product support expenses increased primarily due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base and higher bonuses as a result of increased revenue levels. The software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to incremental amortization of intangible assets. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased as a result of the renewal of a substantial majority of the subscription base eligible for renewal, the addition of software license updates and product support revenues associated with new software license revenues recognized in fiscal 2005, more timely contract renewals, as well as $258 million in revenues from the expansion of our customer base resulting from the acquisition of PeopleSoft. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53% to the growth in software license updates and product support revenues, EMEA contributed 32% and Asia Pacific contributed 15%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased primarily due to higher personnel costs associated with increased headcount, higher discretionary bonuses and facility expenses. The total software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets. Services Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education. Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database, middleware and applications software. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Consulting Revenues: Americas $ 1,157 21% 20% $ 956 11% 11% $ 859 EMEA 771 8% 13% 716 23% 15% 581 Asia Pacific 192 39% 42% 138 7% 12% 149 Total revenues 2,120 17% 19% 1,810 14% 12% 1,589 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 1,878 21% 22% 1,549 15% 11% 1,347 Stock based compensation 7 9% 9% 6 * * Amortization of intangible assets(2) 4 * * 1 * * Total expenses 1,889 21% 23% 1,556 16% 11% 1,347 Total Margin $ 231 9% 7% $ 254 5% 1% $ 242 Total Margin % 11% 14% 15% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 55% 53% 54% EMEA 36% 39% 37% Asia Pacific 9% 8% 9% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * not meaningful 39 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: The increase in consulting revenues in fiscal 2006 is primarily due to an increase in application product implementations and billable hours primarily provided by consultants who were formerly employed by our acquired companies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 56% to the growth in consulting revenues, EMEA contributed 26% and Asia Pacific contributed 18%. Consulting expenses increased as a result of higher salary and benefit expenses due to additional resources acquired from acquisitions and increased external contractor costs due to employee attrition. The total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues was negatively affected as a result of additional consulting expenses attributed to headcount levels and external contractor related expenditures. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Consulting revenues increased $258 million due to revenues earned by performing services under PeopleSoft consulting contracts, partially offset by a decline in consulting revenues earned from services rendered under Oracle consulting contracts. The decline in revenue from Oracle consulting contracts is due to a shift in the mix of resources to lower cost countries, which has resulted in a decrease in billing rates. Consulting revenues also declined as a result of our decision to work more closely with partners, who are performing a higher percentage of the implementations of our software. Excluding PeopleSoft related revenues, consulting revenues decreased in the United States due to higher attrition rates which resulted in a decline in billable hours and revenues. The decline in Asia Pacific consulting revenues was primarily due to a large consulting project in Japan, which was substantially completed at the end of fiscal 2004. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses increased 11% primarily due to higher external contractor costs and personnel related expenditures due to higher headcount and revenue levels. The total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues was negatively affected as a result of additional consulting expenses attributed to higher personnel related costs associated with increased headcount. On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software. Advanced Customer Services consists of configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on site technical services. The cost of providing On Demand services consist primarily of personnel related expenditures and hardware and facilities costs. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 On Demand Revenues: Americas $ 231 41% 40% $ 165 18% 17% $ 140 EMEA 118 26% 32% 93 11% 3% 84 Asia Pacific 48 13% 12% 41 21% 15% 34 Total revenues 397 32% 33% 299 16% 14% 258 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 385 52% 53% 253 17% 14% 216 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 3 * * * * Total expenses 388 53% 53% 253 17% 14% 216 Total Margin $ 9 83% 76% $ 46 10% 6% $ 42 Total Margin % 2% 15% 16% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 58% 55% 54% EMEA 30% 31% 33% Asia Pacific 12% 14% 13% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * not meaningful 40 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2006 due to the expansion of our subscription base in Oracle On Demand services, including incremental revenues from Siebel of $9 million, as well as higher revenues from Advanced Customer Services, including incremental revenues from Siebel of $17 million and PeopleSoft of $9 million. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 65% to the increase in On Demand revenues, EMEA contributed 30% and Asia Pacific contributed 5%. On Demand expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenditures in both our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services businesses as a result of additional resources acquired from Siebel as well as higher computer and technology related charges and external contractor costs in our Oracle On Demand business. The total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues declined due to lower margins associated with the Siebel On Demand offering as well as additional expenditures incurred to support planned future growth. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand services revenues increased primarily due to the expansion of our subscription base in Oracle On Demand services. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 72% to the increase in On Demand services revenues, EMEA contributed 12% and Asia Pacific contributed 16%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total On Demand expenses increased 14% primarily due to higher employee related expenditures related to increased headcount. Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor led, media based and internet based training in the use of our database, middleware and applications software. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Education Revenues: Americas $ 151 34% 32% $ 113 30% 29% $ 87 EMEA 117 8% 13% 108 9% 2% 99 Asia Pacific 54 13% 15% 48 9% 13% 53 Total revenues 322 20% 21% 269 13% 10% 239 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 246 10% 11% 224 8% 4% 207 Stock based compensation * * 1 * * Total expenses 246 10% 11% 225 9% 11% 207 Total Margin $ 76 69% 73% $ 44 38% 42% $ 32 Total Margin % 24% 16% 13% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 47% 42% 36% EMEA 36% 40% 42% Asia Pacific 17% 18% 22% (1) Excluding stock based compensation * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Education revenues increased in fiscal 2006 due to an increase in customer training on the use of our acquired applications products. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 64%, EMEA contributed 24% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the overall increase in education revenues. 41 Table of Contents Education expenses increased due to incremental headcount and associated personnel related expenditures related to Siebel education employees and higher external contractor costs. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Education revenues increased due to revenues related to PeopleSoft. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 127%, EMEA contributed 7%, while Asia Pacific contributed a negative 34% to the overall increase in education revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in education expenses is primarily due to fees paid to education partners that provide training to our customers. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Research and development(1) $ 1,859 25% 24% $ 1,481 18% 17% $ 1,254 Stock based compensation 13 31% 31% 10 * * Amortization of intangible assets(2) 17 49% 38% 32 39% 39% 23 Total expenses $ 1,889 24% 24% $ 1,523 19% 18% $ 1,277 % of Total Revenues 13% 13% 13% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Research and development headcount increased by approximately 1,300 in fiscal 2006, which represented a 13% increase in the database and middleware divisions and a 5% increase in the applications division. The increase in database and middleware headcount was primarily due to hiring of resources outside the United States, while the increase in applications headcount was primarily due to Siebel resources acquired. Research and development expenses increased due to incremental salary and benefits for the additional headcount, higher discretionary bonus expenditures and higher facility and technology costs, partially offset by lower external contractor costs. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2005 due to higher external contractor costs, as well as higher personnel and related expenditures related to the increase in headcount. In fiscal 2005, total research and development headcount increased by 2,656 employees or 25%. The database and middleware technology division has continued to hire engineers, resulting in a 6% headcount increase in fiscal 2005. Applications research and development headcount increased 45% in fiscal 2005 as a result of the hiring of former PeopleSoft engineers. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 General and administrative $ 555 1% 3% $ 550 8% 6% $ 508 % of Total Revenues 4% 5% 5% 42 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased slightly due to higher litigation expenses and increased salary costs, partially offset by lower bonus expenditures. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher discretionary bonuses and benefit expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Year Ended May 31, AverageUsefulLife (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 241 174% $ 88 * $ 10 years Developed technology 206 140% 86 139% 36 5 years Core technology 91 203% 30 * 5 years Customer contracts 30 200% 10 * 10 years Trademarks 15 200% 5 * 7 years Total amortization of intangible assets $ 583 166% $ 219 508% $ 36 * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Amortization of intangible assets increased due to amortization of purchased intangibles from Siebel and other acquisitions in fiscal 2006 as well as a full year of amortization in fiscal 2006 related to PeopleSoft intangibles acquired compared with only five months of amortization in fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Amortization of intangible assets increased due to amortization of purchased intangibles associated with the PeopleSoft acquisition. Acquisition Related Charges: Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock compensation expenses and personnel related costs for transitional employees. Stock based compensation included in acquisition related charges relates to unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of these options. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 In process research and development $ 78 70% $ 46 * $ Transitional employee related costs 30 42% 52 * Stock based compensation 18 62% 47 * Professional fees 11 83% 63 17% 54 Total acquisition related charges $ 137 34% $ 208 285% $ 54 * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Acquisition related charges decreased due to lower professional fees, stock based compensation charges and lower transitional employee costs, partially offset by higher in process research and development charges primarily related to the Siebel acquisition. 43 Table of Contents Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Acquisition related charges increased due to in process research and development charges, transitional employee related costs and stock based compensation charges associated with the PeopleSoft acquisition. In addition, professional fees, which primarily relates to tender offer costs for PeopleSoft prior to the agreement date, increased in fiscal 2005. Restructuring: Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance costs and Oracle duplicate facilities closures which were initiated to improve our cost structure as a result of acquisitions. For additional information regarding the Oracle restructuring plans, as well as restructuring activities of our acquired companies, please see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Severance costs $ 85 33% $ 126 * $ Excess facilities * 21 * Total restructuring charges $ 85 42% $ 147 * $ * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Restructuring expenses decreased in fiscal 2006 due to lower headcount terminations and related severance costs. Additionally, the restructuring program in fiscal 2005 included $21 million of facility exit and termination costs. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Restructuring expenses increased in fiscal 2005 due to Oracle employee severance and facility closures associated with plans initiated in the third quarter of 2005. No restructuring plans were initiated in fiscal 2004. Interest Expense: Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Interest expense $ 169 25% 26% $ 135 543% 543% $ 21 Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to higher average borrowings related to the $5.75 billion senior notes issued in January 2006 as well as outstanding balances under our commercial paper program and unsecured loan facility, both of which were repaid in fiscal 2006. We expect interest expense to increase in fiscal 2007, which will reflect a full year of interest on the $5.75 billion senior notes. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to borrowings in December 2004 of $9.2 billion under a $9.5 billion unsecured term loan agreement, which we repaid in various installments from February 2005 through May 2005. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we borrowed $2.0 billion under a commercial paper program and $700 million under a 364 day unsecured loan facility that are outstanding at May 31, 2005. Interest expense in fiscal 2004 included $5.5 million in commitment fees related to an unused $1.5 billion revolving credit facility that expired in December 2004 and additional interest associated with our $150 million senior notes that matured in February 2004. 44 Table of Contents Non Operating Income, net: Non operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net investment gains related to marketable equity securities and other investments, equity in earnings of i flex solutions limited and the minority interest share in the net profits of Oracle Japan. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Actual Constant 2004 Interest income $ 170 8% 8% $ 185 57% 53% $ 118 Foreign currency gains (losses) 39 * * (14 ) * * (13 ) Net investment gains related to marketable equity securities and other investments 25 * * 2 * * 29 Equity in earnings 14 * * * * Minority interest (41 ) 2% 2% (42 ) 14% 14% (37 ) Other 36 * * 33 * * 5 Total non operating income, net $ 243 49% 50% $ 164 61% 58% $ 102 * not meaningful Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Non operating income, net increased as a result of higher foreign currency gains on our Japanese net investment hedge and the Chinese currency revaluation, $14 million of equity in earnings associated with our interest in i flex solutions limited and higher gains on sales of equity securities. Interest income decreased slightly due to lower average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, partially offset by higher interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased from 1.9% in fiscal 2005 to 3.0% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Non operating income, net increased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to higher interest income earned resulting from higher average cash balances and slightly higher interest rates available in the capital markets. In fiscal 2005, the weighted average interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased from 1.5% to 1.9%. Provision for Income Taxes: The effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Provision for income taxes $ 1,429 23% $ 1,165 8% $ 1,264 Effective tax rate 29.7% 28.8% 32.0% Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2006 due to higher earnings before tax and a higher effective tax rate. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 is primarily attributable to a higher percentage of earnings in high tax jurisdictions as compared with other lower tax rate jurisdictions. In addition, we did not benefit from certain non recurring tax events in fiscal 2006 that occurred in fiscal 2005, as described below, and we incurred higher non deductible in process research and development charges in fiscal 2006. 45 Table of Contents Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Provision for income taxes decreased due to a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher earnings before tax. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2005 is primarily attributable to higher earnings in low tax rate jurisdictions. In addition, the fiscal 2005 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by 4.2% due to the settlement of audits and expiration of statutes of limitation on assessments and the true up of estimated tax accruals upon filing of prior year tax returns. Partially reducing this benefit was an increase to our effective tax rate of 3.6% in fiscal 2005 for the dividend pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 as well as acquisition and restructuring costs related to non deductible expenses resulting from in process research and development charges and additional taxes associated with tender offer costs incurred from June 9, 2003 to December 12, 2004 for PeopleSoft that, upon acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, had to be capitalized into the basis of the stock for tax purposes. We provide for United States income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless they are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. At May 31, 2006, the cumulative earnings upon which United States income taxes have not been provided for were approximately $3.0 billion. If these earnings were repatriated in the United States, they would generate foreign tax credits that would reduce the federal tax liability associated with the foreign dividend. Assuming a full utilization of the foreign tax credits, the potential deferred tax liability for these earnings would be approximately $550 million. In fiscal 2005, we repatriated $3.1 billion of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and recorded a federal tax expense of $118 million and a state tax expense (net of federal tax benefit) of $3 million. We repatriated the maximum amount available for repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This distribution from previously indefinitely reinvested earnings does not change our position going forward that future earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested. Liquidity and Capital Resources May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Working capital $ 5,044 1,210% $ 385 95% $ 7,064 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,605 59% $ 4,771 44% $ 8,587 Working capital: The increase in working capital in fiscal 2006 is primarily due to the $5.75 billion long term senior notes issued in January 2006 as well as greater cash flows from operations from higher sales volumes, partially offset by cash used to pay for acquisitions and to reduce other debt obligations. The decline in working capital in fiscal 2005 is primarily due to cash paid to acquire PeopleSoft and an increase in short term borrowings. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments in time deposits held at major banks, commercial paper, United States government agency discount notes, money market mutual funds and other money market securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of commercial paper, corporate notes and Unites States government agency notes. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities include $3.1 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2006. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities is due to the $5.75 billion senior notes issued in January 2006, cash flows from operations from higher sales volumes and the collection of trade receivables, partially offset by cash used to pay for acquisitions, repurchase common stock and to reduce other debt obligations. Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 55 at May 31, 2006 compared with 56 days at May 31, 2005. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment to reduce software license updates and product support revenue related to adjusting the carrying value for deferred support revenues acquired to its estimated fair value. The decline in days sales outstanding is due to more timely collections as well as a shift in the mix of total revenues. Software 46 Table of Contents license updates and product support revenues are generally billed one year in advance, while the revenues are recognized ratably over the annual contract period. Software license updates and product support revenues as a percent of total revenues increased, resulting in higher cash collections and lower days sales outstanding. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Cash provided by operating activities $ 4,541 28% $ 3,552 11% $ 3,195 Cash used for investing activities $ (3,359 ) 42% $ (5,753 ) 126% $ (2,548 ) Cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 1,527 19% $ 1,884 243% $ (1,320 ) Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for software license updates and product support are generally received by the beginning of the contract term, which is generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, payment of taxes, facilities and technology costs. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash flows provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher net income, excluding non cash charges, partially offset by increased accounts receivables due to fourth quarter fiscal 2006 revenue growth. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Cash flows from operating activities increased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to higher net income, excluding non cash charges, and increases in non acquisition related deferred revenues, partially offset by the payment of liabilities assumed in connection with the PeopleSoft acquisition. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to lower cash payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired as well as proceeds from property sales. Investing cash outflows in fiscal 2005 include cash paid for our acquisition of PeopleSoft, whereas investing cash outflows in fiscal 2006 primarily relates to our acquisition of Siebel Systems and our equity investment purchases in i flex. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: Cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to cash paid to acquire PeopleSoft. The increase was partially offset by higher proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations as well as stock repurchase activity. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash provided by financing activities decreased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to higher stock repurchases, partially offset by higher net borrowings. We increased our share repurchases in fiscal 2006 due to the issuance of approximately 141 million shares of common stock in connection with our Siebel acquisition. We intend to continue to repurchase shares under our stock repurchase programs. 47 Table of Contents Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004: We generated cash flow from financing activities in fiscal 2005 as a result of net borrowings of $2.7 billion primarily used to pay for the acquisition of PeopleSoft. In the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we borrowed $9.2 billion under a bridge loan to fund the acquisition of PeopleSoft and repaid the entire balance as of May 31, 2005 with cash flows from operations, proceeds from maturities and sale of marketable securities, the repatriation of foreign earnings and new borrowings. We borrowed $2.0 billion under a $3.0 billion commercial paper program and $700 million under a 364 day loan facility through a wholly owned subsidiary in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4 quarter basis to analyze cash flow generated from operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2006 Change 2005 Change 2004 Cash provided by operating activities $ 4,541 28% $ 3,552 11% $ 3,195 Capital expenditures(1) $ (236 ) 26% $ (188 ) 1% $ (189 ) Free cash flow $ 4,305 28% $ 3,364 12% $ 3,006 Net income $ 3,381 17% $ 2,886 8% $ 2,681 Free cash flow as a percent of net income 127% 117% 112% (1) Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Long Term Customer Financing We offer our customers the option to acquire our software and services through separate long term payment contracts. We generally sell such contracts on a non recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, $618 million, $456 million and $357 million or approximately 13%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division. 48 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2006: Year Ending May 31, (Dollars in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Principal payments on short term borrowings and long term debt(1) $ 5,906 $ 156 $ $ 1,500 $ $ 2,250 $ 2,000 Capital leases(2) 7 3 4 Interest payments on short term borrowings and long term debt(1) 1,838 305 297 277 217 217 525 Operating leases(3) 1,416 414 227 195 157 117 306 Purchase obligations(4) 329 111 217 1 Funding commitments(5) 6 6 Total contractual obligations $ 9,502 $ 995 $ 745 $ 1,973 $ 374 $ 2,584 $ 2,831 (1) Short term borrowings and long term debt consists of the following as of May 31, 2006: Principal Balance Floating rate senior notes due January 2009 (effective interest rate of 5.28%) $ 1,500 5.00% senior notes due January 2011, net of discount of $8 2,242 5.25% senior notes due January 2016, net of discount of $11 1,989 6.91% senior notes due February 2007 (effective interest rate of 7.30%) 150 Other 6 Total $ 5,887 Interest payments were calculated based on terms of the related agreements and include estimates based on the effective interest rates as of May 31, 2006 for variable rate borrowings and borrowings for which we have entered into interest rate swap agreements. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our borrowings. (2) Represents remaining payments under capital leases of computer equipment assumed from acquisitions. (3) Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $559 in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income and other costs, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2006. (4) Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. (5) Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments which are payable upon demand. We acquired two companies in June 2006 and completed our acquisition of Portal Software, Inc. on July 3, 2006 for approximately $340 million in cash and approximately 2.5 million options assumed. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions have not yet been completed. 49 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Recent Financing Activities In January 2006, we issued $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes due 2009, $2.25 billion of 5.00% senior notes due 2011 and $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (collectively, original senior notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we completed a registered exchange offer for the original senior notes to permit holders to freely transfer their senior notes, which have substantially identical terms to the original senior notes. The 2009 notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.23% per year, the 2011 notes bear interest at the rate of 5.00% per year, and the 2016 notes bear interest at the rate of 5.25% per year. Interest is payable quarterly for the 2009 notes and semi annually for the 2011 notes and 2016 notes. The effective interest yield of the 2009 notes, 2011 notes and 2016 notes at May 31, 2006 was 5.28%, 5.09% and 5.33%, respectively. We may redeem the 2009 notes after January 2007 and may redeem the 2011 notes and 2016 notes at any time, subject to a make whole premium. In February 2006, we entered into dealer agreements with various financial institutions and an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, relating to a new $3.0 billion commercial paper program (the New CP Program). We did not have any outstanding borrowings under the New CP Program at May 31, 2006. In March 2006, we entered into a new $3.0 billion, 5 Year Revolving Credit Agreement (New Credit Agreement) with Wachovia Bank, National Association, Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders. The New Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured revolving credit facility which can be used to backstop any commercial paper that we may issue and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures, contractual obligations and investment needs. In addition, we believe we could fund other acquisitions and repurchase common stock with our internally available cash and investments, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Quarterly Results of Operations Quarterly revenues and expenses have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales compensation plans. These seasonal factors are common in the software industry. These factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically, has been the highest quarter. We expect this trend to continue in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. 50 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding. Fiscal 2006 Quarter Ended (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) August 31 November 30 February 28 May 31 Revenues $ 2,768 $ 3,292 $ 3,470 $ 4,851 Gross profit $ 1,311 $ 1,705 $ 1,779 $ 2,606 Operating income $ 712 $ 1,116 $ 1,052 $ 1,857 Net income $ 519 $ 798 $ 765 $ 1,300 Earnings per share basic $ 0.10 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.25 Earnings per share diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.15 $ 0.14 $ 0.24 Fiscal 2005 Quarter Ended (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) August 31 November 30 February 28 May 31 Revenues $ 2,215 $ 2,756 $ 2,950 $ 3,878 Gross profit $ 1,180 $ 1,611 $ 1,493 $ 2,165 Operating income $ 715 $ 1,131 $ 770 $ 1,407 Net income $ 509 $ 815 $ 540 $ 1,022 Earnings per share basic $ 0.10 $ 0.16 $ 0.11 $ 0.20 Earnings per share diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.16 $ 0.10 $ 0.20 Stock Options Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution for each of the last three full fiscal years has been less than 2.0% and has averaged 1.4% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the new option grants for the year, net of options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the total outstanding shares at the beginning of the year. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Many of these options, which have 10 year exercise periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than the current market price. At May 31, 2006, 25% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historic practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 1.5% per year for our ongoing business. Over the last 10 years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. At May 31, 2006, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised option awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 9.1%. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 25,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants up to 25,000 shares to non executive officers and employees. 51 Table of Contents Options granted from June 1, 2003 through May 31, 2006 are summarized as follows: (Shares in millions) Options outstanding at May 31, 2003 455 Options granted(1) 333 Options exercised (196 ) Forfeitures (119 ) Options outstanding at May 31, 2006 473 Average annualized options granted, net of forfeitures 71 Average annualized stock repurchases 126 Shares outstanding at May 31, 2006 5,232 Weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2003 through May 31, 2006 5,182 Options outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2006 9.0% In the money options outstanding (based on our May 31, 2006 stock price) as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2006 6.8% Average annualized options granted, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2003 through May 31, 2006 1.4% Average annualized options granted, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of average shares outstanding from June 1, 2003 through May 31, 2006 1.1% (1) Includes 179 million options assumed in connection with acquisitions. Generally, we grant stock options to key employees on an annual basis. During fiscal 2006, we made our annual grant of options and other grants to purchase approximately 67.6 million shares, which were partially offset by forfeitures of options to purchase 58.1 million shares. New Accounting Pronouncements Share Based Payment: On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Statement 123(R) supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends FASB Statement No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. Generally, the approach in Statement 123(R) is similar to the approach described in Statement 123. However, Statement 123(R) generally requires share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and purchases under employee stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure of fair value recognition is no longer an alternative. On April 14, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that the Statement 123(R) effective transition date would be extended to annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We adopted the provisions of Statement 123(R) under the modified prospective method in our first quarter of fiscal 2007. Under the modified prospective method, compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date of adoption (a) based on the requirements of Statement 123(R) for all share based payments granted after the effective date of adoption and (b) based on the requirements of Statement 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of adoption that remain unvested on the date of adoption. Statement 123(R) also requires a portion of the benefits of tax deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. Total cash flow will remain unchanged from what would have been reported under prior accounting rules. 52 Table of Contents As permitted by Statement 123, we accounted for share based payments to employees using Opinion 25s intrinsic value method up to May 31, 2006. Although the adoption of Statement 123(R)s fair value method will have no adverse impact on our balance sheet or total cash flows, it will affect our net income and earnings per share. The actual effects of adopting Statement 123(R) will depend on numerous factors including the amounts of share based payments granted in the future, the valuation model we use to value future share based payments to employees and estimated forfeiture rates. We estimate that stock based compensation expense will reduce diluted earnings per share by $0.02 to $0.03 in fiscal 2007 as a result of the adoption of Statement 123(R). Accounting Changes and Error Corrections: On June 7, 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. Statement 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting principles required recognition of a cumulative effect adjustment within net income of the period of the change. Statement 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. Statement 154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005; however, the Statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. We do not believe adoption of Statement 154 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: On July 13, 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. Interpretation 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an entitys financial statements in accordance with Statement 109 and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement disclosure of tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Additionally, Interpretation 48 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Interpretation 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating whether the adoption of Interpretation 48 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Income Rate Risk. Based on our intentions regarding our investments, we classify our investments as either held to maturity or available for sale. Held to maturity investments are reported on the balance sheet at amortized cost. Available for sale securities are reported at market value. Auction rate securities, which are classified as available for sale, are reported on the balance sheet at par value, which equals market value, as the rate on such securities re sets generally every 7 to 28 days. As a majority of our investments are held to maturity, interest rate movements do not affect the balance sheet valuation of the fixed income investments. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect our interest income that is generated from our investments. For fiscal 2006, total interest income was $170 million with investments yielding an average 3.04% on a worldwide basis. This interest rate level was up approximately 111 basis points from 1.93% for fiscal 2005. If overall interest rates fell by a similar amount (111 basis points) in fiscal 2007, our interest income would decline approximately $64 million, assuming consistent investment levels. The table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2006. The cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances approximate fair value at May 31, 2006: (Dollars in millions) AmortizedPrincipal Amount Weighted AverageInterest Rate Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,659 4.08% Marketable securities 946 2.18% Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,605 3.84% 53 Table of Contents The following table includes the United States dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies. See discussion of our foreign currency risk below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. (in millions) Amortized Principal Amount at May 31, 2006 Japanese Yen $ 748 Euro 384 Chinese Renminbi 303 British Pound 304 Canadian Dollar 231 Australian Dollar 125 South African Rand 119 Other currencies 929 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,143 Interest Expense Rate Risk. Borrowings as of May 31, 2006 were $5.9 billion, consisting of $4.3 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $1.6 billion of variable rate borrowings. Interest expense for fiscal 2006 was $169 million. Based on effective interest rates at May 31, 2006, a 50 basis point increase in interest rates on our borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations would increase our interest expense by approximately $8 million annually. (Dollars in millions) Borrowings Effective Interest Rate Floating rate senior notes due January 2009(1) $ 1,500 5.28% 6.91% senior notes due February 2007 and related interest rate swap(2) 150 7.30% Total borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations $ 1,650 (1) The 2009 Notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.23% per year. (2) We entered into an interest rate swap agreement that has the economic effect of modifying the interest obligations associated with our 6.91% senior notes so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively becomes variable based on the three month LIBOR set quarterly until maturity. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. We transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risk associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the forward contracts, to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. These foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. Our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. We do not use forward contracts for trading purposes. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (excluding our Yen equity hedge described below) are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in non operating income, net. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange transaction gains (losses) included in non operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $15 million, $(27) million and $(21) million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts were not significant individually and approximated $(0.3) million and $0.2 million as of May 31, 2006 and 2005. 54 Table of Contents The table below presents the notional amounts (at contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates for the outstanding forward contracts as of May 31, 2006. Notional weighted average exchange rates are quoted using market conventions where the currency is expressed in currency units per United States dollar. All of our forward contracts mature in 90 days or less as of May 31, 2006. Table of Forward Contracts: United States Dollar Foreign Exchange Contracts (Dollars in millions) Exchange Foreign Currency for U.S. Dollars (Notional Amount) Exchange U.S. Dollars for Foreign Currency (Notional Amount) NotionalWeighted Average Exchange Rate Functional Currency: Australian Dollar $ 8.4 $ 4.2 0.75 British Pound 7.4 1.86 Canadian Dollar 23.2 1.11 Chilean Peso 3.1 527.00 Chinese Renminbi 195.2 7.96 Columbian Peso 7.1 1.8 2,486.00 Euro 87.9 1.28 Indian Rupee 1.7 46.14 Japanese Yen 47.2 1.8 111.23 Korean Won 18.8 946.00 Mexican Peso 4.6 11.20 New Zealand Dollar 2.4 0.63 Norwegian Krone 1.0 6.12 Peruvian Sol 2.2 3.27 Philippine Peso 9.2 53.25 Saudi Arabian Riyal 33.2 3.75 Singapore Dollar 2.2 3.8 1.58 Swedish Krona 1.2 7.26 South African Rand 7.4 6.61 Taiwan Dollar 2.7 31.78 Thai Baht 7.5 1.0 38.27 Total $ 466.2 $ 20.0 Euro Foreign Exchange Contracts (Euros in millions) Exchange Foreign Currency Euros (Notional Amount) Exchange Euros for Foreign Currency (Notional Amount) NotionalWeighted Average Exchange Rate Functional Currency: Swiss Franc 5.8 1.56 Danish Krone 2.4 7.46 British Pound 39.2 0.69 Israeli Shekel 1.8 5.80 Norwegian Krone 3.0 7.82 Polish Zloty 5.8 3.94 Saudi Arabian Riyal 2.0 4.80 Slovakian Koruna 2.1 37.86 Swedish Krona 4.6 9.28 United States Dollar 14.1 1.28 South African Rand 29.3 8.45 Total 110.1 55 Table of Contents Net Investment Risk. Periodically, we hedge the net assets of certain international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. We measure the effectiveness of net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. Under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. The remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is recognized in non operating income, net. At May 31, 2006, we had one net investment hedge in Japanese Yen. The Yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of Oracle Japan. The fair value of our Yen investment hedge was nominal as of May 31, 2006 and 2005. The Yen investment hedge has a notional amount of $595 million and an exchange rate of 111 Yen per United States dollar. Net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity were $23 million, $(23) million and $(38) million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net gains on investment hedges reported in non operating income, net were $24 million, $14 million and $8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
 
