Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We are the worlds largest enterprise software company. We are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. Each of these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in United States dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than United States dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating segments follows. Software Business Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software license revenues and (2) software license updates and product support revenues. We expect that our software business revenues will continue to increase, which should allow us to improve margins and profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products and acquisitions. The new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software revenues on a trailing 4 quarter period provides more visibility into the underlying fundamental performance of our software revenues than analysis of quarterly revenues. New software license revenues represented 33% of our total revenues in fiscal 2007. Our new software license margins have been affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies we have acquired. Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to maintain a first or second position in each of our software product categories and certain industry segments as well as to grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We believe that the features and functionality of our software products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products by improving integration, decreasing installation times, lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products provides our customers with a higher return on their investment, which we believe will create more demand for our products and services and provide us with a competitive advantage. We have also continued to focus on improving the overall quality of our software products and service levels. We believe this will lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty and help us achieve our goal of becoming our customers leading technology advisor. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. In fiscal 2007, we also introduced Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux operating system. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is influenced by three factors: (1) the support contract base of companies acquired, (2) the renewal rate of the support contract base and (3) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represent approximately 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2007, are our highest margin business unit. Support margins during fiscal 2007 were 90%, and accounted for 76% of our total margins over the same respective period. We believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will continue to grow for the following reasons: Acquisitions over the past three years have significantly increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed. 25 Table of Contents Substantially all customers purchase license updates and product support when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new license revenue growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow assuming renewal and cancellation rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions add to the support contract base. Substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal. We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business acquisitions to their estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $212 million, $391 million and $320 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education revenues. Our services business, which represents 21% of our total revenues in fiscal 2007, has significantly lower margins than our software business. Consulting: Consulting revenues have increased primarily due to consulting services provided by i flex as well as an increase in application implementations created by higher sales of new software applications over the past year. We expect consulting revenues to continue to grow as consulting revenues tend to lag software revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after the purchase of new software licenses and our new license growth rates have generally increased over the corresponding period in the prior year over the past several quarters. On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM on Demand and Advanced Customer Services. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide an additional opportunity for customers to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand to support current and future revenue growth, which has negatively impacted On Demand margins and we expect may continue to do so in the future. Education: The purpose of our education services is to further enhance the usability of our software products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our software revenues. Education revenues have been impacted by personnel reductions in our customers information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. Despite these trends, we expect education revenues to increase in fiscal year 2008, primarily due to an increase in customer training on the use of our acquired application products and increases in license revenues from our database and middleware products. Acquisitions An active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. In the last three fiscal years, we have invested over $25 billion, in the aggregate, to acquire companies, products, services and technologies, including the acquisitions of PeopleSoft, Inc., a provider of enterprise applications software products; Siebel Systems, Inc., a provider of customer relationship management software; Hyperion Solutions Corporation, a provider of enterprise performance management and business intelligence software; and others. Typically, the significant majority of our integration activities related to an acquisition are substantially complete in the United States within three to six months after the closing of the acquisition. We believe our acquisition program supports our long term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, particularly in the applications marketplace, expands our customer base and provides greater scale to increase our investment in research and development to accelerate innovation, grow our earnings and increase stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of 26 Table of Contents our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our recent and pending acquisitions. We believe we can fund additional acquisitions with our internally available cash and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our commercial paper program, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Returns In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from the following sources: (1) software, which includes new software license and software license updates and product support revenues, and (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and education revenues. New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the provisions of Statement of Position No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenue when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or 27 Table of Contents determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner. The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support, which are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers. Software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase both software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as service transactions as defined in SOP 97 2. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenue should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenue is deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or not to exceed fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. We recognize no more than 90% of the milestone or total contract amount until project acceptance is obtained. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenue is recognized when we receive final acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenue and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of the software license and consulting transactions, then new software license revenue is generally recognized together with the consulting services based on contract accounting using either the percentage of completion or completed contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license fees; (2) where services include significant modification or customization of the software; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software at Oracles data center facilities or at a site of our customers choosing. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our Siebel CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services are earned by providing customers configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on site technical services. Revenue from On Demand services is recognized over the term of the service period, which is generally one year. Education revenues include instructor led, media based and internet based training in the use of our products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered. For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by vendor specific objective evidence. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all 28 Table of Contents elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately and for software license updates and product support services, is additionally measured by the renewal rate offered to the customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ significantly from our historical results. We defer revenue for any undelivered elements, and recognize revenue when the product is delivered or over the period in which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy for such element. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a delivered element has not been established, we use the residual method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue. Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with government entities when acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short term in nature, we provide for a sales return allowance in accordance with FASB Statement No. 48, Revenue Recognition when Right of Return Exists. If acceptance provisions are long term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement or if we cannot reasonably estimate the incidence of returns, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing fiscal funding or termination for convenience provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the essential use of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenue once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity. We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenue if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30; however, terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition. While most of our arrangements include short term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long term financing to credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non recourse basis to third party financing institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as true sales as defined in FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have licensed our software to these same companies (a Concurrent Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a three month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to be at arms length, and settle the purchase in cash. We 29 Table of Contents recognize new software license revenue from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations. Business Combinations In accordance with business combination accounting, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as to in process research and development based on their estimated fair values. We engage third party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from license sales, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop the in process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the acquired companys brand and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In connection with purchase price allocations, we estimate the fair value of the support obligations assumed in connection with acquisitions. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build up approach. The cost build up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the software products acquired. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with selling effort is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded the selling effort on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. The estimated research and development costs are not included in the fair value determination, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $212 million, $391 million and $320 million that would have been otherwise recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their contracts when the contract is eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Had we included our estimated selling and research and development activities, and the associated margin for unspecified product upgrades and enhancements to be provided under our assumed support arrangements, the fair value of the support obligations would have been significantly higher than what we have recorded and we would have recorded a higher amount of software license updates and product support revenue historically and in future periods related to these assumed contracts. Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions include restructuring costs. Restructuring costs are primarily comprised of severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by management but which are subject to refinement. To estimate restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated with pre merger activities of the companies we acquire are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date) and as operating expenses thereafter. 30 Table of Contents For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre acquisition contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period, we are able to determine the fair value of a pre acquisition contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation period, we are unable to determine the fair value of a pre acquisition contingency, we will evaluate whether to include an amount in the purchase price allocation based on whether it is probable a liability had been incurred and whether an amount can be reasonably estimated. With the exception of unresolved tax matters, after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to amounts recorded for a pre acquisition contingency will be included in our operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The provisions of Statement 142 require that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, did not result in an impairment charge. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic income and expense to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax 31 Table of Contents assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known. The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which our earnings or deductions are realized may differ from our current estimates. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. As part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the quarter the impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non deductible amortization expense as part of the purchase price allocation. We have taken into account the allocation of these identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities. Income tax contingencies existing as of the acquisition dates of the acquired companies are evaluated quarterly and any adjustments are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill. In fiscal 2008, we will adopt FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. Please refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. Legal and Other Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. As a result of our acquisition of PeopleSoft in fiscal 2005, we inherited contingent liabilities resulting from a program PeopleSoft had implemented prior to the consummation of our acquisition of PeopleSoft (referred to as the customer assurance program or CAP). See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Stock Based Compensation On June 1, 2006, we adopted Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, under the modified prospective method. Statement 123R generally requires share based payments to employees to be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. Prior to June 1, 2006, we accounted for our stock based compensation plans under the intrinsic value method of accounting as defined by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and applied the disclosure provisions of Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended. Under Opinion 25, we generally did not recognize any compensation expense for stock options as the exercise price of our options was equivalent to the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. Substantially all of our stock based compensation expense 32 Table of Contents recognized under Opinion 25 related to options assumed from acquisitions. For pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair values for options granted and options assumed were amortized using the accelerated expense attribution method. In addition, we reduced pro forma stock compensation expense for actual forfeitures in the periods they occurred. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for Statement 123R. We have applied the provisions of SAB 107 in our adoption of Statement 123R. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the impact of our adoption of Statement 123R and the assumptions we use to calculate the fair value of share based employee compensation. Upon our adoption of Statement 123R, we were required to estimate the awards that we ultimately expect to vest and to reduce stock based compensation expense for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the expense recognition period. Although we estimated forfeitures based on historical experience, forfeitures in the future may differ. Under Statement 123R, the forfeiture rate must be revised if actual forfeitures differ from our original estimates. Also in connection with our adoption of Statement 123R, we elected to recognize awards granted after our adoption date under the straight line amortization method. We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using a Black Scholes valuation model. The fair value of an award is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options. The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of our publicly traded stock options in order to estimate future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by job classification. Our expected dividend rate is zero since we do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We record deferred tax assets for stock based awards that result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of stock based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is computed in accordance with the alternative transition method as prescribed under FASB Staff Position FAS 123R 3, Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards. The accounting guidance under Statement 123R is relatively new and several interpretations have been released since the pronouncement has been issued. Additional interpretations may be released and the application of these principles may be subject to further refinement over time. In addition, to the extent we change the terms of our employee stock based compensation programs, refine different assumptions in future periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our estimates and implement the change in our expense attribution method from accelerated to straight line, which we elected when adopting Statement 123R, the stock based compensation expense that we record in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded during our fiscal 2007 reporting periods. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts and Returns We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowance for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and the future results of operations could be materially affected. 33 Table of Contents We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales. These estimates are based on historical sales returns, the volume and size of our larger transactions and other known factors. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Results of Operations The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 is impacted by our acquisition of Siebel in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the consolidation of i flex beginning June 1, 2006 (beginning of fiscal 2007) and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Hyperion in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 is also impacted by acquisitions, principally our acquisition of PeopleSoft in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and, to a lesser extent, the acquisitions of Siebel in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and Retek, Inc. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006, and fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products to growth in new software license revenues, the amount of revenues associated with software license updates and product support as well as On Demand services, and present supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting and stock based compensation where applicable. Although certain revenue contributions from our acquisitions are quantifiable, we are unable to identify the following: The contribution of consulting and education services revenues from acquired companies in fiscal 2007 and 2006 (with the exception of i flex and Hyperion consulting revenues and Hyperion education revenues for which we disclose the impact in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the significant majority of these services have been fully integrated into our existing operations. The contribution of expenses associated with acquired products and services in fiscal 2007 and 2006 (with the exception of certain i flex and Hyperion operating expenses for which we disclose the impact in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the significant majority of these services have been fully integrated into our existing operations. We caution readers that, while pre and post acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the information has inherent limitations for the following reasons: The quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in particular the effect of having a single sales force offer similar products. The commissions earned by our integrated sales force generally do not vary based on the application product sold. We believe that if our sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different. The significant majority of our acquisitions in the periods presented did not result in our entry into a new line of business or product category. Therefore, we provided multiple products with substantially similar features and functionality. Although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenue in our supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting and stock based compensation are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew. Constant Currency Presentation We compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this annual report using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the exchange rate in effect on May 31, 2006, which was the 34 Table of Contents last day of our prior fiscal year, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2007 and May 31, 2006, our financial statements would reflect revenues of $1.35 million in fiscal 2007 (using 1.35 as the exchange rate) and $1.27 million in fiscal 2006 (using 1.27 as the exchange rate). The constant currency presentation would translate the fiscal 2007 results using the fiscal 2006 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the periods. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual results as reported and based on constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 9,460 24% 23% $ 7,652 32% 31% $ 5,798 EMEA(1) 6,037 28% 20% 4,708 10% 15% 4,288 Asia Pacific 2,499 24% 21% 2,020 18% 21% 1,713 Total revenues 17,996 25% 22% 14,380 22% 23% 11,799 Total Operating Expenses 12,022 25% 22% 9,644 24% 25% 7,777 Total Operating Margin $ 5,974 26% 21% $ 4,736 18% 20% $ 4,022 Total Operating Margin% 33% 33% 34% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 53% 49% EMEA 34% 33% 36% Asia Pacific 13% 14% 15% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 14,211 23% 20% $ 11,541 23% 24% $ 9,421 Services 3,785 33% 29% 2,839 19% 21% 2,378 Total revenues $ 17,996 25% 22% $ 14,380 22% 23% $ 11,799 % Revenues by Business: Software 79% 80% 80% Services 21% 20% 20% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2007 due to increased demand for our products and services offerings, strong sales execution, and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. Total revenues were positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 3 percentage points in fiscal 2007 due to the weakening of the United States dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 27% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 47% and services contributed 26%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 56% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 30% and Asia Pacific contributed 14%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses is primarily due to higher salary and employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels (primarily resulting from our acquisitions in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006), as well as higher commissions and travel and entertainment expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses also increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher amortization costs of intangible assets and stock based compensation expenses related to our adoption of Statement 123R. Operating expenses were negatively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 3 percentage 35 Table of Contents points. The aforementioned increases in operating expenses were partially offset by lower restructuring expenses and the settlement of a pre acquisition PeopleSoft related contingency that benefited our operating expenses (see Acquisition Related Charges discussion below). Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues were flat in fiscal 2007 and were favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points. Our revenues grew at a faster rate than our operating expenses, excluding amortization costs of intangible assets and stock based compensation expenses. The increases in those cost categories offset the slower growth in other operating expenses. International operations will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues. As a result, total revenues and expenses will be affected by changes in the relative strength of the United States dollar against certain major international currencies. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2006 due to strong sales execution, incremental revenues from acquisitions and a strengthening in our competitive position. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 50% to the growth in total revenues, new software licenses contributed 32% and services revenues contributed 18%. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 65% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 22% and Asia Pacific contributed 13%. Total revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues from our acquired companies. Operating expenses were favorably affected by 1 percentage point as a result of the strengthening of the United States dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses is primarily due to higher headcount levels and associated personnel related costs in sales and marketing, consulting and research and development, higher commissions due to the increase in revenues and greater amortization of intangible assets, offset partially by lower restructuring and acquisition related expenses. Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues decreased slightly in fiscal 2006 due to higher costs associated with acquisitions, principally amortization of intangible assets. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Acquisition Accounting and Stock Based Compensation To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Results of Operations (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre and post acquisition information. 36 Table of Contents Our results of operations include the following business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other expenses including stock based compensation: Year Ended May 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Support deferred revenue(1) $ 212 $ 391 $ 320 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 878 583 219 Acquisition related charges(3)(5) 140 137 208 Restructuring(4) 19 85 147 Stock based compensation(5) 198 31 25 Income tax effect(6) (414 ) (362 ) (264 ) $ 1,033 $ 865 $ 655 (1) In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $212 million, $391 million and $320 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. Approximately $120 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized in fiscal 2008 that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entitles, due to the application of business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period. (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions, primarily PeopleSoft, Siebel, Hyperion and i flex. Estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets is as follows (in millions): Year Ended May 31, 2008 $ 1,114 2009 1,101 2010 976 2011 756 2012 620 Thereafter 1,397 Total $ 5,964 (3) Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock based compensation expenses and personnel related costs for transitional employees. For fiscal 2007, acquisition related charges also included a $52 million benefit related to the settlement of a pre acquisition lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft on behalf of the U.S. government. (4) Restructuring expenses relate to Oracle employee severance and facility closures in connection with restructuring plans initiated in the third quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005. In fiscal 2007, our restructuring expenses relate to notifications made pursuant to the Fiscal 2006 Oracle Restructuring Plan. 37 Table of Contents (5) Stock based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Year Ended May 31, 2007 2006 2005 Sales and marketing $ 38 $ 8 $ 6 Software license updates and product support 11 3 2 Cost of services 15 7 7 Research and development 85 13 10 General and administrative 49 Subtotal 198 31 25 Acquisition related charges 9 18 47 Total $ 207 $ 49 $ 72 Stock based compensation included in acquisition related charges resulted from unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of these options. We adopted Statement 123R on June 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method. Statement 123R requires us to record non cash operating expenses associated with stock option awards at their estimated fair values. Prior to our Statement 123R adoption, we were required to record stock based compensation expenses at intrinsic values. Accordingly, prior to our adoption of Statement 123R, substantially all of our stock based compensation expense related to options assumed from acquisitions. In accordance with the modified prospective method, our financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the changes in methodology to expense options at fair values in accordance with Statement 123R. As of May 31, 2007, the unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options expected to vest was approximately $356 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.3 years. See Note 7 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our adoption of Statement 123R. (6) The income tax effects on purchase accounting adjustments and other significant expenses including stock based compensation were calculated based on our effective tax rates of 28.6%, 29.7% and 28.8% in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively 38 Table of Contents Software Software includes new software licenses and software license updates and product support. New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 New Software License Revenues: Americas $ 2,751 18% 18% $ 2,323 29% 27% $ 1,805 EMEA 2,043 24% 16% 1,650 10% 14% 1,505 Asia Pacific 1,088 17% 15% 932 19% 22% 781 Total revenues 5,882 20% 17% 4,905 20% 21% 4,091 Expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 3,869 22% 18% 3,169 27% 27% 2,505 Stock based compensation 38 388% 388% 8 33% 33% 6 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 354 70% 70% 208 251% 251% 59 Total expenses 4,261 26% 23% 3,385 32% 33% 2,570 Total Margin $ 1,621 7% 3% $ 1,520 0% 2% $ 1,521 Total Margin % 28% 31% 37% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 47% 47% 44% EMEA 35% 34% 37% Asia Pacific 18% 19% 19% Revenues by Product: Database and middleware $ 4,119 15% 12% $ 3,566 9% 11% $ 3,265 Applications 1,716 32% 29% 1,303 66% 67% 785 Total revenues by product 5,835 20% 17% 4,869 20% 21% 4,050 Other revenues 47 31% 29% 36 13% 12% 41 Total new software license revenues $ 5,882 20% 17% $ 4,905 20% 21% $ 4,091 % Revenues by Product: Database and middleware 71% 73% 81% Applications 29% 27% 19% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew in all major product lines and across all geographies. Database and middleware revenues contributed 57% to the increase in new software license revenues, while applications revenues contributed 43%. The Americas contributed 50%, EMEA contributed 33% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to the increase in new software license revenues. 39 Table of Contents Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 12% as a result of a gain in market share, increased demand for our database and middleware products as well as incremental revenues from acquired companies. Siebel products contributed incremental revenues of $48 million, Stellent products $26 million, Hyperion products $16 million and other recently acquired products $19 million to the total database and middleware revenue growth in fiscal 2007. On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased 29% as a result of a gain in market share resulting from a strengthening of our competitive position in the applications market due to improved product features and functionality and incremental revenues from acquired companies. Siebel products contributed incremental revenues of $130 million, i flex products $50 million, Hyperion products $27 million, Portal products $22 million, Demantra products $21 million and other recently acquired products $22 million to total applications revenue growth. New software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million grew by 24% in fiscal 2007 and increased from 45% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2006 to 46% in fiscal 2007. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher personnel related expenses associated with increased headcount, as well as higher commissions expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels. Total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues declined as expenses, including amortization costs of intangible assets, grew at a faster rate than revenues. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues increased due to strong sales execution in all product lines. Applications revenues contributed 60% to the increase in new software license revenues, while database and middleware revenues contributed 40%. Additionally, new software license revenues increased in all geographic regions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 57%, EMEA contributed 23% and Asia Pacific contributed 20% to the increase in new software license revenues. New software license revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues and location of sales personnel from our acquired companies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 11% driven by increased demand for database option products, and gain in market share in the application server market as a result of better sales execution and more competitive features and functionality. Siebel products contributed $34 million to the growth in database and middleware revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, applications revenues increased 67% as a result of increased demand for our applications products, including products from acquired companies, better sales execution as a result of segmenting our sales force by product and a strengthening of our competitive position in the applications market, particularly in the United States and EMEA. PeopleSoft products contributed $220 million to the growth in applications revenue in fiscal 2006, Siebel products contributed $103 million and Retek products contributed $41 million. New software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased from 40% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2005 to 45% in fiscal 2006. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased due to higher commission expenses resulting from the growth in new software license revenues, higher personnel related expenditures primarily associated with our expanded sales force from acquired companies and higher advertising expenses. The total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to incremental amortization of intangible assets and higher compensation expenses. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business 40 Table of Contents include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 4,698 24% 23% $ 3,790 37% 36% $ 2,759 EMEA 2,653 29% 21% 2,052 10% 15% 1,866 Asia Pacific 978 23% 22% 794 13% 16% 705 Total revenues 8,329 25% 22% 6,636 25% 26% 5,330 Expenses: Software license updates and product support(1) 831 16% 12% 716 16% 17% 616 Stock based compensation 11 306% 306% 3 15% 15% 2 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 470 34% 34% 351 178% 178% 127 Total expenses 1,312 23% 21% 1,070 44% 45% 745 Total Margin $ 7,017 26% 23% $ 5,566 21% 23% $ 4,585 Total Margin % 84% 84% 86% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 57% 52% EMEA 32% 31% 35% Asia Pacific 11% 12% 13% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased as a result of the addition of software license updates and product support revenues associated with new software license revenues recognized during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and over the course of fiscal 2007, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from the expansion of our customer base from acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 59%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2007 include incremental revenues of $310 million from Siebel, $37 million from i flex, $19 million from Hyperion, and $55 million from other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $212 million, $391 million and $320 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base, higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and higher stock based compensation expenses. Software license updates and product support expenses 41 Table of Contents include $16 million in incremental expenses from i flex and Hyperion. Total software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues was flat as intangible asset amortization expense and stock based compensation grew much faster than revenues and offset the lower growth in other operating expenses. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased for similar reasons as noted above. Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2006 include incremental revenues of $797 million from PeopleSoft contracts and $90 million from Siebel contracts. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 72% to the growth in software license updates and product support revenues, EMEA contributed 20% and Asia Pacific contributed 8%. Software license updates and product support revenues in the Americas, specifically in the United States, increased at a faster rate than in other regions primarily due to the relative geographical mix of revenues and existing support contract bases of our acquired companies. Software license updates and product support expenses increased primarily due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base and higher bonuses as a result of increased revenue levels. The software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to incremental amortization of intangible assets. Services Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education. Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Consulting Revenues: Americas $ 1,534 33% 32% $ 1,157 21% 20% $ 956 EMEA 1,033 34% 24% 771 8% 13% 716 Asia Pacific 302 57% 52% 192 39% 42% 138 Total revenues 2,869 35% 31% 2,120 17% 19% 1,810 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 2,477 32% 27% 1,878 21% 22% 1,549 Stock based compensation 9 36% 36% 7 9% 9% 6 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 30 585% 579% 4 226% 226% 1 Total expenses 2,516 33% 29% 1,889 21% 23% 1,556 Total Margin $ 353 53% 47% $ 231 9% 7% $ 254 Total Margin % 12% 11% 14% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 55% 53% EMEA 36% 36% 39% Asia Pacific 11% 9% 8% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased primarily due to an increase in application product implementations resulting from higher new application software license revenues over the last year, $359 million of incremental revenues from i flex, which we 42 Table of Contents acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2007, and $16 million of incremental revenues from Hyperion. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 16% to the increase in consulting revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses increased as a result of higher personnel related expenses attributed to higher headcount levels and third party contractor expenses. Consulting expenses include $281 million of incremental expenses from i flex and $17 million from Hyperion. Total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to higher margins contributed by i flex. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: The increase in consulting revenues is primarily due to an increase in application product implementations and billable hours primarily provided by consultants who were formerly employed by our acquired companies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 56% to the growth in consulting revenues, EMEA contributed 26% and Asia Pacific contributed 18%. Consulting expenses increased as a result of higher salary and benefit expenses due to additional resources we acquired as part of our acquisitions and increased external contractor costs due to employee attrition. The total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues declined in fiscal 2006 in comparison to fiscal 2005 as a result of additional consulting expenses attributed to headcount levels and external contractor related expenditures. On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for our database and middleware as well as our applications software at our data center facilities or at a site of our customers choosing. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our Siebel CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services consists of configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and on site technical services. The cost of providing On Demand services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures and hardware and facilities costs. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 On Demand Revenues: Americas $ 313 35% 35% $ 231 41% 40% $ 165 EMEA 176 49% 39% 118 26% 32% 93 Asia Pacific 68 46% 42% 48 13% 12% 41 Total revenues 557 40% 37% 397 32% 33% 299 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 574 49% 45% 385 52% 53% 253 Stock based compensation 4 * * * * Amortization of intangible assets(2) 14 365% 365% 3 * * Total expenses 592 52% 47% 388 53% 53% 253 Total Margin $ (35 ) 553% 512% $ 9 83% 76% $ 46 Total Margin % 6% 2% 15% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 56% 58% 55% EMEA 32% 30% 31% Asia Pacific 12% 12% 14% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful 43 Table of Contents Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand revenues increased due to higher Advanced Customer Services revenues, and the expansion of our subscription base in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand services. Advanced Customer Services revenues contributed 46% of the growth, while Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand contributed 33% and 21%, respectively. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 32% and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in On Demand revenues. Advanced Customer Services revenues included $50 million of incremental revenues from Siebel in fiscal 2007 while CRM On Demand revenues included $31 million. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenditures, higher amortization expenses resulting from intangible assets, as well as higher technology infrastructure related costs to support the expansion of our customer base. CRM On Demand expense growth reflects a full year of expenses related to our Siebel CRM On Demand employees (in comparison to only four months in fiscal 2006). Total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues decreased, primarily driven by more rapid growth in personnel related expenses in comparison to revenues, and to a lesser extent, growth in technology infrastructure related expenditures in Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand as well as amortization of intangible assets. Advanced Customer Services operating margins remained flat compared with the prior year while operating losses in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand increased. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2006 due to the expansion of our subscription base in Oracle On Demand services, including incremental revenues from Siebel of $9 million, as well as higher revenues from Advanced Customer Services, including incremental revenues from Siebel of $17 million and PeopleSoft of $9 million. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 65% to the increase in On Demand revenues, EMEA contributed 30% and Asia Pacific contributed 5%. On Demand expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenditures in both our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services businesses as a result of additional resources acquired from Siebel as well as higher computer and technology related charges and external contractor costs in our Oracle On Demand business. The total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues declined due to lower margins associated with the CRM On Demand offering as well as additional expenditures incurred to support planned future growth. 44 Table of Contents Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor led, media based and internet based training in the use of our database and middleware as well as applications software. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Education Revenues: Americas $ 164 9% 8% $ 151 34% 32% $ 113 EMEA 132 13% 6% 117 8% 13% 108 Asia Pacific 63 16% 14% 54 13% 15% 48 Total revenues 359 11% 8% 322 20% 21% 269 Expenses: Cost of services(1) 283 15% 11% 246 10% 11% 224 Stock based compensation 2 * * 100% 100% 1 Total expenses 285 16% 12% 246 10% 11% 225 Total Margin $ 74 2% 5% $ 76 69% 73% $ 44 Total Margin % 21% 24% 16% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 46% 47% 42% EMEA 37% 36% 40% Asia Pacific 17% 17% 18% (1) Excluding stock based compensation * Not meaningful Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, education revenues grew primarily due to an increase in customer training on the use of our application products, as well as $5 million of incremental revenues from our acquisition of Hyperion. The Americas contributed 46%, EMEA contributed 26% and Asia Pacific contributed 28% to the increase in education revenues. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, education expenses increased due to incremental headcount and associated personnel related expenditures, as well as higher third party contractor and royalty fees associated with increased revenues. Education expenses also include $3 million of incremental expenses from Hyperion. Total education margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as expenses grew at a higher rate than revenues. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Education revenues increased due to an increase in customer training on the use of our acquired applications products. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 64%, EMEA contributed 24% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the overall increase in education revenues. Education expenses increased due to incremental headcount and associated personnel related expenditures related to Siebel education employees and higher external contractor costs. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. 45 Table of Contents Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Research and development(1) $ 2,110 14% 11% $ 1,859 25% 24% $ 1,481 Stock based compensation 85 541% 541% 13 31% 31% 10 Amortization of intangible assets(2) 10 47% 47% 17 49% 38% 32 Total expenses $ 2,205 17% 16% $ 1,889 24% 24% $ 1,523 % of Total Revenues 12% 13% 13% (1) Excluding stock based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our consolidated statements of operations Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, research and development expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits expenses associated with higher headcount levels, increased stock based compensation expenses due to the adoption of Statement 123R and increased external contractor expenses. Research and development expenses include incremental expenses of $25 million from i flex and $19 million from Hyperion. Research and development headcount increased by approximately 3,600 employees, consisting of a 33% increase in personnel in our applications products divisions and a 14% increase in personnel in our database and middleware products division. The increase in applications headcount includes approximately 1,200 employees acquired from i flex and 200 from Hyperion, while the increase in database and middleware headcount includes approximately 400 employees acquired from Hyperion. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Research and development headcount increased by approximately 1,300, which represented a 13% increase in personnel in our database and middleware products division and a 5% increase in personnel in our applications products division. The increase in database and middleware headcount was primarily due to hiring of resources outside the United States, while the increase in applications headcount was primarily due to Siebel resources acquired. Research and development expenses increased due to incremental salary and benefits for the additional headcount, higher discretionary bonus expenditures and higher facility and technology costs, partially offset by lower external contractor costs. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 General and Administrative(1) $ 643 16% 13% $ 555 1% 3% $ 550 Stock based compensation 49 * * * * Total expenses $ 692 25% 22% $ 555 1% 3% $ 550 % of Total Revenues 4% 4% 5% (1) Excluding stock based compensation * Not meaningful Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2007 as a result of higher personnel related costs associated with increased headcount to support our expanding operations, the recognition of stock based compensation expenses due to the adoption of Statement 123R and increased professional services fees, primarily litigation related expenses. General and administrative expenses include incremental expenses of $25 million from i flex and $10 million from Hyperion. 46 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased slightly due to higher litigation expenses and increased salary costs, partially offset by lower bonus expenditures. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 321 33% $ 241 174% $ 88 Developed technology 355 72% 206 140% 86 Core technology 133 46% 91 203% 30 Customer contracts 44 47% 30 200% 10 Trademarks 25 67% 15 200% 5 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 878 51% $ 583 166% $ 219 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Amortization of intangible assets increased due to the amortization of purchased intangibles from Hyperion, Siebel (a full year of amortization in fiscal 2007 in comparison to four months in fiscal 2006), i flex and other acquisitions that we consummated in the past two fiscal years. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization expenses. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Amortization of intangible assets increased due to amortization of purchased intangibles from Siebel and other acquisitions in fiscal 2006 as well as a full year of amortization in fiscal 2006 related to PeopleSoft intangibles acquired compared with only five months of amortization in fiscal 2005. Acquisition Related Charges: Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock compensation expenses and personnel related expenses for transitional employees. Stock based compensation included in acquisition related charges relates to unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of these options. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 In process research and development $ 151 94% $ 78 70% $ 46 Transitional employee related expenses 24 20% 30 42% 52 Stock based compensation 9 50% 18 62% 47 Professional fees 8 27% 11 83% 63 PeopleSoft pre acquisition legal contingency accrual (52 ) * * Total acquisition related charges $ 140 2% $ 137 34% $ 208 * Not meaningful Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Acquisition related charges increased primarily due to in process research and development charges resulting from our acquisitions of Hyperion, i flex and others in fiscal 2007. This increase was offset by a $52 million benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed in October 2003 against PeopleSoft on behalf of the U.S. government, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft. The lawsuit alleged PeopleSoft made defective pricing disclosures to the General Services Administration. This lawsuit represented a pre acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of PeopleSoft. On October 10, 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government approximately $98 million to settle this lawsuit. Business combination accounting standards require that after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to amounts recorded for a pre acquisition contingency is to be included as an element of net income in the period of settlement, versus an adjustment to the original purchase price allocation. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in our third quarter of fiscal 2006, the favorable difference of $52 million between the estimated 47 Table of Contents exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Acquisition related charges decreased due to lower professional fees, stock based compensation charges and lower transitional employee costs, partially offset by higher in process research and development charges primarily related to the Siebel acquisition. Restructuring: Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance costs and Oracle duplicate facilities closures which were initiated to improve our cost structure as a result of acquisitions. For additional information regarding the Oracle restructuring plans, as well as restructuring activities of our acquired companies, please see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Severance costs $ 19 78% $ 85 33% $ 126 Excess facilities * 100% 21 Total restructuring charges $ 19 78% $ 85 42% $ 147 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Restructuring expenses decreased as our management did not initiate and communicate any plans to restructure our Oracle based operations during fiscal 2007. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2007 relate to notifications made pursuant to the Fiscal 2006 Oracle Restructuring Plan. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Restructuring expenses decreased in fiscal 2006 due to lower headcount terminations and related severance costs. Additionally, the restructuring program in fiscal 2005 included $21 million of facility exit and termination costs. Interest Expense: Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Interest expense $ 343 103% 104% $ 169 25% 26% $ 135 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher average borrowings in fiscal 2007 related to our $5.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued in January 2006 (of which $1.5 billion was redeemed by us in May 2007), our $2.1 billion of commercial paper issuances (of which approximately $1.4 billion remained outstanding as of May 31, 2007) and our $2.0 billion of senior notes issued in May 2007. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to higher average borrowings related to the $5.75 billion senior notes issued in January 2006 as well as outstanding balances under our commercial paper program and unsecured loan facility, both of which were repaid in fiscal 2006. Non Operating Income, net: Non operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net investment gains related to marketable securities and other investments as well as the minority interests share in the net profits of i flex and Oracle Japan. 48 Table of Contents Year Ended May 31, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2007 Actual Constant 2006 Actual Constant 2005 Interest income $ 295 74% 72% $ 170 8% 8% $ 185 Foreign currency gains (losses) 45 15% 19% 39 368% 374% (14 ) Net investment gains related to equity securities 22 11% 10% 25 1301% 1292% 2 Minority interest (71 ) 72% 70% (41 ) 2% 2% (42 ) Other 64 28% 22% 50 52% 52% 33 Total non operating income, net $ 355 46% 45% $ 243 49% 50% $ 164 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Non operating income, net increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher interest income attributable to an increase in average interest rates (the weighted average interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased from 3.04% in fiscal 2006 to 3.97% in fiscal 2007), partially offset by higher minority interests share in the net profits of i flex and Oracle Japan. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Non operating income, net increased in fiscal 2006 as a result of higher foreign currency gains on our Japanese net investment hedge and the Chinese currency revaluation, $14 million of equity in earnings associated with our interest in i flex and higher gains on sales of equity securities. Interest income decreased slightly due to lower average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, partially offset by higher interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased from 1.93% in fiscal 2005 to 3.04% in fiscal 2006. Provision for Income Taxes: The effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Provision for income taxes $ 1,712 20% $ 1,429 23% $ 1,165 Effective tax rate 28.6% 29.7% 28.8% Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher earnings before tax, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 was slightly lower than in fiscal 2006 primarily due to additional research and development tax credits as well as agreements reached with foreign tax authorities on certain tax positions. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2006 due to higher earnings before tax and a higher effective tax rate. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 is primarily attributable to a higher percentage of earnings in high tax jurisdictions as compared with other lower tax rate jurisdictions. In addition, we did not benefit from certain non recurring tax events in fiscal 2006 that occurred in fiscal 2005, including the settlement of audits and expiration of statutes of limitations on certain tax assessments and the true up of estimated tax accruals upon the filing of our prior year tax returns. We also incurred higher non deductible in process research and development charges in fiscal 2006. Liquidity and Capital Resources May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Working capital $ 3,496 31% $ 5,044 1,210% $ 385 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,020 8% $ 7,605 59% $ 4,771 49 Table of Contents Working capital: The decrease in working capital in fiscal 2007 was primarily a result of cash used to pay for our acquisitions and stock repurchases, partially offset by increases in operating cash flows from higher sales volumes, proceeds received from employee stock option exercises and an increase in our long term borrowings. The increase in working capital in fiscal 2006 is primarily due to our issuance of $5.75 billion long term senior notes in January 2006 as well as greater cash flows from operations from higher sales volumes, partially offset by cash used to pay for acquisitions, stock repurchases, and the reduction of our other debt obligations. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments in time deposits held at major banks, commercial paper, United States government agency discount notes, money market mutual funds and other money market securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of commercial paper, corporate notes and United States government agency notes. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities include $5.0 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2007. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities is a result of cash used to pay for acquisitions and stock repurchases, partially offset by an increase in our operating cash flows from higher sales volumes, increases in our short term and long term borrowings and proceeds from stock option exercises. Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 62 days at May 31, 2007 compared with 55 days at May 31, 2006. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment to reduce software license updates and product support revenues related to adjusting the carrying value for deferred support revenues acquired to fair value. Our increase in days sales outstanding is primarily due to higher days sales outstanding from acquired companies, as well as differences in the timing of completion of certain sales transactions between years. Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Cash provided by operating activities $ 5,520 22% $ 4,541 28% $ 3,552 Cash used for investing activities $ (4,971 ) 48% $ (3,359 ) 42% $ (5,753 ) Cash (used for) provided by financing activities $ (1,139 ) 175% $ 1,527 19% $ 1,884 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for software license updates and product support agreements are generally received by the beginning of the contract term, which is generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures as well as payments related to taxes and facilities. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Cash flows provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher net income before non cash charges, partially offset by increased accounts receivables due to fourth quarter fiscal 2007 revenue growth, cash payments to terminate leases associated with excess facilities assumed in the Siebel acquisition, an increase in cash interest payments resulting from higher average borrowings and the settlement of a pre acquisition lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash flows provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher net income, excluding non cash charges, partially offset by increased accounts receivables due to fourth quarter fiscal 2006 revenue growth. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2007 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. We paid cash to purchase a number of companies in fiscal 2007 including Hyperion, Stellent, MetaSolv, and Portal Software, and to purchase additional equity securities in i flex. Cash outflows in fiscal 2006 primarily relate to our acquisition of Siebel and our equity investment purchases in i flex. 50 Table of Contents Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to lower cash payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, as well as proceeds from property sales. Investing cash outflows in fiscal 2005 include cash paid for our acquisition of PeopleSoft, whereas investing cash outflows in fiscal 2006 primarily relate to our acquisition of Siebel and our equity investment purchases in i flex. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations as well as stock repurchase and stock option exercise activity. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2007 primarily relates to an increase in stock repurchases and lower borrowings net of repayments when compared with the prior year. At May 31, 2007 we had approximately $4.2 billion available for share repurchases pursuant to a program authorized by our Board of Directors and we intend to continue to repurchase shares pursuant to this program. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005: Cash provided by financing activities decreased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to higher stock repurchases, partially offset by higher net borrowings. We increased our share repurchases in fiscal 2006 due to the issuance of approximately 141 million shares of common stock in connection with our Siebel acquisition. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4 quarter basis to analyze cash flow generated from operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Year Ended May 31, (Dollars in millions) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Cash provided by operating activities $ 5,520 22% $ 4,541 28% $ 3,552 Capital expenditures(1) $ (319 ) 35% $ (236 ) 26% $ (188 ) Free cash flow $ 5,201 21% $ 4,305 28% $ 3,364 Net income $ 4,274 26% $ 3,381 17% $ 2,886 Free cash flow as a percent of net income 122% 127% 117% (1) Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Long Term Customer Financing In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, $891 million, $618 million and $456 million or approximately 15%, 13% and 11%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a non recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. Contractual Obligations The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most 51 Table of Contents significant assumptions used in our information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2007: Year Ending May 31, (Dollars in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Principal payments on short term borrowings and long term debt(1) $ 7,611 $ 1,361 $ 1,000 $ 1,000 $ 2,250 $ $ 2,000 Capital leases(2) 3 3 Interest payments on short term borrowings and long term debt(1) 1,658 325 321 269 218 105 420 Operating leases(3) 1,448 339 301 242 162 124 280 Purchase obligations(4) 292 73 196 3 3 3 14 Funding commitments(5) 3 3 Total contractual obligations $ 11,015 $ 2,104 $ 1,818 $ 1,514 $ 2,633 $ 232 $ 2,714 (1) Short term borrowings and long term debt consists of the following as of May 31, 2007: Principal Balance Commercial paper notes (effective interest rate of 5.33)% $ 1,355 Floating rate senior notes due May 2009 (effective interest rate of 5.38)% 1,000 Floating rate senior notes due May 2010 (effective interest rate of 5.42)% 1,000 5.00% senior notes due January 2011, net of discount of $6 2,244 5.25% senior notes due January 2016, net of discount of $9 1,991 Other 3 Total borrowings $ 7,593 (1) Interest payments were calculated based on terms of the related agreements and include estimates based on the effective interest rates as of May 31, 2007 for variable rate borrowings. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our borrowings. (2) Represents remaining payments under capital leases of computer equipment assumed from acquisitions. (3) Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $364 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income and other costs, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2007. (4) Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. (5) Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments which are payable upon demand. In May 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire Agile Software Corporation, a leading provider of product lifecycle management software, for $8.10 per share in cash, or approximately $495 million. The merger is subject to stockholder and regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close in mid to late July 2007. This commitment is not reflected in the above table. 52 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Recent Financing Activities Commercial Paper Program In February 2006, we entered into dealer agreements with various financial institutions and an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, relating to a $3.0 billion commercial paper program (CP Program). Under the CP Program, we may issue and sell unsecured short term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. In fiscal 2007, we issued approximately $2.1 billion of short term promissory notes (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to our CP Program, of which $1.4 billion remained outstanding and $1.6 billion remained as additional capacity under our CP Program as of May 31, 2007. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes ranged between two weeks and three months and the weighted average yield, including issuance costs, was 5.33% at May 31, 2007. We did not have any outstanding borrowings under our CP Program at May 31, 2006. Senior Notes Payable In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior notes, of which $1.0 billion is due May 2009 (New 2009 Notes) and $1.0 billion is due May 2010 (2010 Notes). We issued the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes to fund the redemption of the $1.5 billion of senior floating rate notes that we issued in fiscal 2006 (see below) and for general corporate purposes. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes bear interest at a rate of three month USD LIBOR plus 0.02% and 0.06%, respectively, and interest is payable quarterly. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes may not be redeemed prior to their maturity. In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes consisting of $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes due 2009 (Original 2009 Notes), $2.25 billion of 5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (2016 Notes and together with the Original 2009 Notes and the 2011 Notes, Original Senior Notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we completed a registered exchange offer of the Original Senior Notes for registered senior notes with substantially identical terms to the Original Senior Notes. In May 2007 we redeemed the Original 2009 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes may also be redeemed at any time, subject to payment of a make whole premium. The 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes bear interest at the rate of 5.00% and 5.25% per year, respectively. Interest is payable semi annually for the 2011 notes and 2016 notes. The effective interest yields of the New 2009 Notes, 2010 Notes, 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes (collectively, the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2007 were 5.38%, 5.42%, 5.09% and 5.33%, respectively. The Senior Notes rank pari passu with the Commercial Paper Notes and all existing and future senior indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and future liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation will be effectively senior to the Senior Notes and the Commercial Paper Notes. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund acquisitions, including the Agile acquisition, and repurchase common stock with our internally available cash and investments, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Quarterly Results of Operations Quarterly revenues and expenses have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales compensation plans. These seasonal factors are common in the software industry. These factors have caused a 53 Table of Contents decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has been the highest revenue quarter. We expect this trend to continue in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding. Fiscal 2007 Quarter Ended (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) August 31 November 30 February 28 May 31 Revenues $ 3,591 $ 4,163 $ 4,414 $ 5,828 Gross profit $ 1,666 $ 2,024 $ 2,197 $ 3,143 Operating income $ 943 $ 1,357 $ 1,394 $ 2,281 Net income $ 670 $ 967 $ 1,033 $ 1,604 Earnings per share basic $ 0.13 $ 0.19 $ 0.20 $ 0.31 Earnings per share diluted $ 0.13 $ 0.18 $ 0.20 $ 0.31 Fiscal 2006 Quarter Ended (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) August 31 November 30 February 28 May 31 Revenues $ 2,768 $ 3,292 $ 3,470 $ 4,851 Gross profit $ 1,311 $ 1,705 $ 1,779 $ 2,606 Operating income $ 712 $ 1,116 $ 1,052 $ 1,857 Net income $ 519 $ 798 $ 765 $ 1,300 Earnings per share basic $ 0.10 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.25 Earnings per share diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.15 $ 0.14 $ 0.24 Stock Options Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution for each of the last three full fiscal years has been less than 2.0% and has averaged 1.7% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the new option grants for the year (including options assumed in acquisitions), net of options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the total outstanding shares at the beginning of the year. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Some of these options, which have 10 year exercise periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than the current market price. At May 31, 2007, 12% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. Over the last 10 years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to repay indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2007, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised option awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 8.5%. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants of up to 100,000 shares to non executive officers and employees. 54 Table of Contents Options activity from June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2007 is summarized as follows: (Shares in millions) Options outstanding at May 31, 2004 440 Options granted 171 Options assumed 204 Options exercised (264 ) Forfeitures and cancellations (117 ) Options outstanding at May 31, 2007 434 Average annualized options granted, net of forfeitures 86 Average annualized stock repurchases 165 Shares outstanding at May 31, 2007 5,107 Weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2007 5,168 Options outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2007 8.5% In the money options outstanding (based on our May 31, 2007 stock price) as a percent of shares outstanding at May 31, 2007 7.5% Average annualized options granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2007 1.7% Average annualized options granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of average shares outstanding from June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2007 1.5% Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization wide option grants to selected employees during the ten business day period following the two business days after the announcement of our fiscal year end earnings report. New Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to new accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Income Rate Risk. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we began designating newly acquired fixed income investments as available for sale. As a result of the available for sale designation, all securities purchased after May 31, 2006 are recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value. As of May 31, 2007, substantially all investments held are classified as available for sale. We generally purchase investments with relatively short maturities. Therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our investments. Auction rate securities are reported on the balance sheet at par value, which equals market value, as the rate on such securities re sets generally every 7 to 28 days. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect our interest income that is generated from our investments. For fiscal 2007, total interest income was $295 million with investments yielding an average 3.97% on a worldwide basis. This interest rate level was up approximately 93 basis points from 3.04% for fiscal 2006. If overall interest rates fell by a similar amount (93 basis points) in fiscal 2008, our interest income would decline by approximately $70 million, assuming consistent investment levels. The table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances 55 Table of Contents and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2007. The cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances approximate fair value at May 31, 2007: Amortized Weighted Average (Dollars in millions) Principal Amount Interest Rate Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,218 4.08% Marketable securities 802 2.89% Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,020 3.95% The following table includes the United States dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies. See discussion of our foreign currency risk below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. Amortized Principal Amount at May 31, (in millions) 2007 Euro $ 892 Japanese Yen 681 British Pound 371 Chinese Renminbi 336 Canadian Dollar 237 Australian Dollar 218 South African Rand 118 Other currencies 1,359 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 4,212 Interest Expense Rate Risk. Borrowings as of May 31, 2007 were $7.6 billion, consisting of $5.6 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $2.0 billion of variable rate borrowings. Our variable rate borrowings were as follows at May 31, 2007: (Dollars in millions) Borrowings Effective Interest Rate Floating rate senior notes due May 2009(1) $ 1,000 5.38% Floating rate senior notes due May 2010(1) 1,000 5.42% Total borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations $ 2,000 (1) The 2009 and 2010 Notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.02% per year and 0.06% per year, respectively. Interest expense for fiscal 2007 was $343 million. Based on effective interest rates at May 31, 2007, a 50 basis point increase in interest rates on our borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations would increase our interest expense by approximately $17 million annually. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. We transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the forward contracts, to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. These foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. Our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. We do not use forward contracts for trading purposes. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (excluding our Yen equity hedge described below) are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in non operating income, net. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange transaction gains 56 Table of Contents (losses) included in non operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $17 million, $15 million and $(28) million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The unrealized gains (losses) of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $5 million and $(0.3) million at May 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The tables below present the notional amounts (at contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates for the outstanding forward contracts as of May 31, 2007. Notional weighted average exchange rates listed in the tables below are quoted using market conventions. All of our forward contracts mature within one year with the substantial majority maturing within 90 days or less as of May 31, 2007. Tables of Forward Contracts: United States Dollar Foreign Exchange Contracts Exchange Exchange Notional Foreign Currency U.S. Dollars for Weighted Average for U.S. Dollars Foreign Currency Exchange Rate (Dollars in millions) (Notional Amount) (Notional Amount) (Market Convention) Functional Currency: Australian Dollar $ 11 $ 5 0.82 British Pound 6 1.98 Canadian Dollar 30 7 1.07 Chilean Peso 3 526.10 Chinese Renminbi 177 7.57 Columbian Peso 6 1,925.00 Indian Rupee 29 123 45.82 Israel Shekel 4 4.01 Japanese Yen 25 120.22 Korean Won 18 926.90 Mexican Peso 7 10.84 New Zealand Dollar 4 0.72 Philippine Peso 14 46.12 Saudi Arabian Riyal 32 3.75 Singapore Dollar 2 84 1.52 South African Rand 12 7.19 Taiwan Dollar 4 32.79 Thai Baht 7 33.50 Total $ 381 $ 229 57 Table of Contents Euro Foreign Exchange Contracts Exchange Exchange Notional Foreign Currency Euros for Weighted Average for Euros Foreign Currency Exchange Rate (Euros in millions) (Notional Amount) (Notional Amount) (Market Convention) Functional Currency: Swiss Franc 5 1.64 Danish Krone 3 7.45 British Pound 42 0.68 Indian Rupee 4 54.31 Israeli Shekel 4 5.44 Norwegian Krone 4 8.11 Polish Zloty 5 3.83 Saudi Arabian Riyal 3 5.07 Slovakian Koruna 1 34.08 Swedish Krona 5 9.26 United States Dollar 19 1.35 South African Rand 27 9.73 Total 118 4 Net Investment Risk. Periodically, we hedge the net assets of certain international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. We measure the effectiveness of net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. Under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. The remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is recognized in non operating income, net. Net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity prior to tax effects were $45 million, $23 million and $(23) million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The net gain on investment hedges reported in non operating income, net were $28 million, $24 million and $14 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At May 31, 2007, we had one net investment hedge in Japanese Yen. The Yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of Oracle Japan. The fair value of our Yen investment hedge was $0.2 million at May 31, 2007 and 2006. As of May 31, 2007, the Yen investment hedge has a notional amount of $548 million and an exchange rate of 120.22 Yen for each United States dollar. 
 
