Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such forward looking statements may include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Starwood, its Directors or Trustees or its officers with respect to the matters discussed in this Joint Annual Report. All forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties set forth below. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect current or future events or circumstances. Where you can find more information We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs web site at http://www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available on our website at http://www.starwoodhotels.com/corporate/investor relations.html as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at its public reference rooms in Washington, D.C. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC 0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Our filings with the SEC are also available at the New York Stock Exchange. For more information on obtaining copies of our public filings at the New York Stock Exchange, you should call (212) 656 5060. You may also obtain a copy of our filings free of charge by calling Alisa Rosenberg, Vice President, Investor Relations at (914) 640 5214. Risks Relating to Hotel, Resort and Vacation Ownership Operations We Are Subject to All the Operating Risks Common to the Hotel and Vacation Ownership Industries. Operating risks common to the hotel and vacation ownership industries include: changes in general economic conditions, including the timing and robustness of the apparent recovery in the United States from the recent economic downturn and the prospects for improved performance in other parts of the world; impact of war and terrorist activity (including threatened terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions; travelers fears of exposures to contagious diseases or the occurrence of natural disasters; 1 Table of Contents decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of general economic conditions; the impact of internet intermediaries on pricing and our increasing reliance on technology; cyclical over building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; changes in travel patterns; changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers compensation and health care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; disputes with owners of properties, franchisees and homeowner associations which may result in litigation; the availability of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and franchisees to fund construction, renovations and investments; foreign exchange fluctuations; the financial condition of third party property owners and franchisees; and the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel. We are also impacted by our relationships with owners and franchisees. Our hotel management contracts are typically long term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace us if certain financial or performance criteria are not met. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. Additionally, our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management, franchise or representation agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. General Economic Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Results. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. A tightening of the labor markets in one or more geographic regions may result in fewer and or less qualified applicants for job openings in our facilities. Higher wages, related labor costs and the increasing cost trends in the insurance markets may negatively impact our results as wages, related labor costs and insurance premiums increase. We Must Compete for Customers. The hotel and vacation ownership industries are highly competitive. Our properties compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties, and, with respect to our vacation ownership resorts and residential projects, with owners reselling their vacation ownership interests (VOIs), including fractional ownership, or apartments. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and they may improve their facilities, reduce their prices or expand or improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our operating results. We Must Compete for Management and Franchise Agreements. We compete with other hotel companies for management and franchise agreements. As a result, the terms of such agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In connection with entering into management or franchise agreements, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties. The Hotel Industry Is Seasonal in Nature. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature; however, the periods during which we experience higher revenue vary from property to property and depend principally upon location. Our revenue historically has been lower in the first quarter than in the second, third or fourth quarters. 2 Table of Contents Internet Reservation Channels May Negatively Impact our Bookings. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As the percentage of internet bookings increases, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as three star downtown hotel) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. We Place Significant Reliance on Technology. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for property management, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty program, distribution and guest amenities. These technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs for such technology. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Our Businesses Are Capital Intensive. For our owned, managed and franchised properties to remain attractive and competitive, the property owners and we have to spend money periodically to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for cash and, to the extent the property owners and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. This may depend on the financial condition of the third party owners and franchisees. Their financial condition may also impact our ability to recover amounts that may be owed to us by owners, developers and franchisees such as indemnity payments. In addition, to continue growing our vacation ownership business and residential projects, we need to spend money to develop new units. Accordingly, our financial results may be sensitive to the cost and availability of funds and the carrying cost of VOI and residential inventory. Real Estate Investments Are Subject to Numerous Risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own and lease hotels and resorts. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, real estate, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and or time consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. Hotel and Resort Development Is Subject to Timing, Budgeting and Other Risks. We intend to develop hotel and resort properties, including VOIs and residential components of hotel properties, as suitable 3 Table of Contents opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; so called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; ability to raise capital; and governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. We cannot assure you that any development project will be completed on time or within budget. Environmental Regulations. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead or asbestos containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. International Operations Are Subject to Special Political and Monetary Risks. We have significant international operations which as of December 31, 2004 included 175 owned, managed or franchised properties in Europe, Africa and the Middle East (including 29 properties with majority ownership); 46 owned, managed or franchised properties in Latin America (including 12 properties with majority ownership); and 94 owned, managed or franchised properties in the Asia Pacific region (including 4 properties with majority ownership). International operations generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. These risks include the risk of war, terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization. In addition, some international jurisdictions restrict the repatriation of non U.S. earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the ability of non U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Other than Italy, where our risks are heightened due to the 13 properties we own, our international properties are geographically diversified and are not concentrated in any particular region. Debt Financing As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to: (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; and (ii) interest rate risk. Although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance our existing indebtedness and any other indebtedness when 4 Table of Contents it matures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the terms of such refinancings will be favorable. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if necessary, may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us; (ii) a substantial decrease in operating cash flow or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to sell assets and or modify our operations; and (iii) our higher level of debt and resulting interest expense may place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to certain competitors with lower amounts of indebtedness and or higher credit ratings. On January 7, 2004, Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors placed the Companys Ba1 and BB+ corporate credit ratings on review/watch for a possible downgrade. The review/watch was prompted by the Companys announcement that it had invested $200 million in Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts Ltd. (Le Meridien) senior debt and would be in discussions to negotiate the potential recapitalization of Le Meridien. On January 27, 2005, Standard & Poors removed the Company from its credit review/watch and affirmed the Companys BB+ rating with a stable outlook. Any downgrading of the Companys credit rating may result in higher borrowing costs on future financings and impact our ability to access capital markets. Risks Relating to So Called Acts of God, Terrorist Activity and War Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by so called acts of God, such as natural disasters, in locations where we own and or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife and geopolitical uncertainty have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. Some Potential Losses are Not Covered by Insurance We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to our owned and leased properties and we make available insurance programs for owners of properties we manage and franchise. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. Generally, our all risk property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is a limit as well as various sub limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. In addition, there may be overall limits under the policies. Sub limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. Our property policies also provide that for the coverage of critical earthquake (California and Mexico) and flood, all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the annual aggregate limits and sub limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and any such claims will also be combined with the claims of owners of managed hotels that participate in our insurance program for the same purpose. Therefore, if insurable events occur that affect more than one of our owned hotels and or managed hotels owned by third parties that participate in our insurance program, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the annual aggregate limit or sub limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. If the limits or sub limits are exceeded, each affected hotel will only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. In addition, under those circumstances, claims by third party owners will reduce the coverage available for our owned and leased properties. In addition, there are also other risks such as war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism, acts of God such as hurricanes and earthquakes and some environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured 5 Table of Contents limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel or resort, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel or resort. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Acquisitions We intend to make acquisitions that complement our business. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to identify acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. On December 30, 2003, we announced our share ($200 million) of the acquisition with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman Brothers) of all of the outstanding senior debt of Le Meridien. As part of this investment, we entered into an agreement with Lehman Brothers whereby they would negotiate with us on an exclusive basis towards a recapitalization of Le Meridien. The exclusivity period expired in early April 2004 although negotiations with Lehman Brothers are continuing. While negotiations are continuing, there can be no assurance that transaction agreements will be entered into or a transaction consummated and if consummated what the terms and form of such a transaction would be. If the Le Meridien transaction or additional acquisitions are made, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. Investing Through Partnerships or Joint Ventures Decreases Our Ability to Manage Risk In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although we generally seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partners share of joint venture liabilities. Dispositions We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core, (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate), no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments and from time to time, attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our Vacation Ownership Business Is Subject to Extensive Regulation and Risk of Default We market and sell VOIs, which typically entitle the buyer to ownership of a fully furnished resort unit for a one week period (or in the case of fractional ownership interests, generally for three or more weeks) on either an annual or an alternate year basis. We also acquire, develop and operate vacation ownership resorts, and provide financing to purchasers of VOIs. These activities are all subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which vacation ownership resorts are located and in which VOIs are marketed and sold including regulation of our telemarketing activities under state and federal Do Not Call laws. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser the right to rescind the purchase contract at any time within a statutory rescission period. Although we believe that we are in material 6 Table of Contents compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which vacation ownership marketing, sales and operations are currently subject, changes in these requirements or a determination by a regulatory authority that we were not in compliance, could adversely affect us. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of our VOIs. We bear the risk of defaults under purchaser mortgages on VOIs. If a VOI purchaser defaults on the mortgage during the early part of the loan amortization period, we will not have recovered the marketing, selling (other than commissions in certain events), and general and administrative costs associated with such VOI, and such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed VOI. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the sales price will be fully or partially recovered from a defaulting purchaser or, in the event of such defaults, that our allowance for losses will be adequate. Recent Privacy Initiatives We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non compliance by third parties engaged by us) may result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Certain Interests Barry S. Sternlicht is the Executive Chairman of the Corporation and the Trust and, until October 1, 2004, was the Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sternlicht also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of, and may be deemed to control, Starwood Capital Group, L.L.C. (Starwood Capital), a real estate investment firm. Starwood Capital and the Company have entered into a non compete agreement whereby Starwood Capital may not purchase a hotel property in the United States without the consent of the Company. Although Starwood Capital is not subject to a non compete agreement with the Company for hotel properties outside of the United States, as a matter of practice, all opportunities to purchase such properties are also first presented to the Company in accordance with the Companys Corporate Opportunity Policy. In each case, to the extent that management of the Company recommends not to pursue an opportunity, the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors (or other committee of independent directors) will make a decision as to whether or not the Company will pursue the opportunity. In addition, from time to time, the Company has entered into transactions in which Mr. Sternlicht has an interest. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. To the extent any executive officer or director of the Company has an interest in businesses that seek to do business with the Company, any agreements with those businesses are subject to Governance and Nominating Committee (or other committee of independent directors) approval pursuant to the Companys Corporate Opportunity Policy. Ability to Manage Growth Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. During 2004, we experienced changes in our senior management, including a new Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, in February 2005 our President and Chief Operating Officer announced his intention to retire at the end of 2005. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. 7 Table of Contents Tax Risks Failure of the Trust to Qualify as a REIT Would Increase Our Tax Liability. Qualifying as a real estate investment trust (a REIT) requires compliance with highly technical and complex tax provisions that courts and administrative agencies have interpreted only to a limited degree. Also, facts and circumstances that we do not control may affect the Trusts ability to qualify as a REIT. The Trust believes that since the taxable year ended December 31, 1995, it has qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Trust intends to continue to operate so it qualifies as a REIT. However, the Trust cannot assure you that it will continue to qualify as a REIT. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for any prior tax year(s), the Trust would be liable to pay a significant amount of taxes for those year(s). Similarly, if the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT in the future, our liability for taxes would increase. Additional Legislation Could Eliminate or Reduce Certain Benefits of Our Structure. On January 6, 1999, we consummated a reorganization pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Restructuring dated as of September 16, 1998, as amended, among the Corporation, ST Acquisition Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation, and the Trust (the Reorganization). Pursuant to the Reorganization, the Trust became a subsidiary of the Corporation, which, through a wholly owned subsidiary, holds all the outstanding Class A shares of beneficial interest, par value $0.01 per share, of the Trust. The Reorganization was proposed in response to the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 (H.R. 2676), which made it difficult for us to acquire and operate additional hotels while still maintaining our former status as a grandfathered paired share real estate investment trust. While we believe that the Reorganization was the best alternative in light of H.R. 2676 and that our current structure does not raise the same concerns that led Congress to enact such legislation, no assurance can be given that additional legislation, regulations or administrative interpretations will not be adopted that would eliminate or reduce certain benefits of the Reorganization and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. As part of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, the tax rates on corporate dividends to shareholders were decreased to 15 and 5 percent, depending on the shareholders individual tax brackets. However, dividends paid by a REIT are generally not eligible for the reduced dividend tax rate. REIT dividends largely represent rents and other income that are passed through to shareholders as dividends deductible to the REIT, rather than corporate earnings subject to the corporate income tax. The implementation of this statute may cause individual investors to view stocks of non REIT corporations as more attractive relative to shares of REITs than was the case previously. Furthermore, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was enacted on October 22, 2004. The Act made certain changes to the rules relating to REITs including, for example, changes to the straight debt safe harbor rules and provisions permitting a REIT in certain circumstances to pay a monetary penalty for failure to satisfy a REIT requirement in lieu of being subject to disqualification as a REIT. However, given the fact that the statute was only recently enacted, it is not entirely clear how the Internal Revenue Service will apply and interpret each new provision of the Act. We undertake global tax planning in the normal course of business. These activities may be subject to review by tax authorities. As a result of the review process, uncertainties exist and it is possible that some matters could be resolved adversely to us. Evolving government regulation could impose taxes or other burdens on our business. We rely upon generally available interpretations of tax laws and regulations in the countries and locales in which we operate. We cannot be sure that these interpretations are accurate or that the responsible taxing authority is in agreement with our views. The imposition of additional taxes could cause us to have to pay taxes that we currently do not collect or pay or increase the costs of our services or increase our costs of operations. Our current business practice with our internet reservation channels is that the intermediary collects hotel occupancy tax from its customer based on the price that the intermediary paid us for the hotel room. We then remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. Several jurisdictions have stated that they may take the position that the tax is also applicable to the intermediaries gross profit on these hotel transactions. If 8 Table of Contents jurisdictions take this position, they should seek the additional tax payments from the intermediary; however, it is possible that they may seek to collect the additional tax payment from us and we would not be able to collect these taxes from the customers. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the hotel occupancy tax applies to the gross profit on these transactions, we believe that any additional tax would be the responsibility of the intermediary. However, it is possible that we might have additional tax exposure. In such event, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares No Person or Group May Own More Than 8% of Our Shares. Our governing documents provide (subject to certain exceptions) that no one person or group may own or be deemed to own more than 8% of our outstanding stock or Shares of beneficial interest, whether measured by vote, value or number of Shares. There is an exception for shareholders who owned more than 8% as of February 1, 1995, who may not own or be deemed to own more than the lesser of 9.9% or the percentage of Shares they held on that date, provided, that if the percentage of Shares beneficially owned by such a holder decreases after February 1, 1995, such a holder may not own or be deemed to own more than the greater of 8% or the percentage owned after giving effect to the decrease. We may waive this limitation if we are satisfied that such ownership will not jeopardize the Trusts status as a REIT. In addition, if Shares which would cause the Trust to be beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons are issued or transferred to any person, such issuance or transfer shall be null and void. This ownership limit may have the effect of precluding a change in control of us by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors, even if such change in control would otherwise give the holders of Shares or other of our equity securities the opportunity to realize a premium over then prevailing market prices, and even if such change in control would not reasonably jeopardize the status of the Trust as a REIT. Our Board of Directors May Issue Preferred Stock and Establish the Preferences and Rights of Such Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 1,350,000,000, initially consisting of one billion shares of common stock, 50 million shares of excess common stock, 200 million shares of preferred stock and 100 million shares of excess preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of shareholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares or other shares having special preferences or rights could delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our shareholders. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of shares without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our shares. Our Board of Directors May Implement Anti Takeover Devices and our Charter and By Laws Contain Provisions which May Prevent Takeovers. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses that are not currently in place, such as a classified board. In addition, our charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of the Corporation Shares, which may be amended only by the affirmative vote of our shareholders holding two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our Bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our Bylaws. Our Shareholder Rights Plan Would Cause Substantial Dilution to Any Shareholder That Attempts to Acquire Us on Terms Not Approved by Our Board of Directors. We adopted a shareholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our shareholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock, subject to the ownership limit described above. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding Corporation Shares or (ii) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 15% or more of 9 Table of Contents our outstanding Corporation Shares. The preferred stock purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Changes in Stock Option Accounting Rules May Adversely Impact Our Reported Operating Results Prepared in Accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Our Stock Price and Our Competitiveness in the Employee Marketplace. We have a history of using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce. Currently, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, allows companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for options, which would result in expense recognition for all options granted, or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income of using the fair value recognition method. We have elected to apply APB No. 25 and accordingly, we do not recognize any expense with respect to employee stock options as long as such options are granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our Shares on the date of grant. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) concluded that SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, will be effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. Under SFAS No. 123(R), companies must measure compensation cost for all share based payments, including employee stock options, using a fair value based method and these payments must be recognized as expenses in our statements of operations. The implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 will require us to expense the fair value of our stock options in our consolidated statement of operations rather than disclosing the impact on results of operations within our footnotes in accordance with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 (see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this could negatively impact our ability to utilize employee stock plans to recruit and retain employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. Item 1. Business. General We are one of the worlds largest hotel and leisure companies. We conduct our hotel and leisure business both directly and through our subsidiaries. Our brand names include St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, W and Four Points by Sheraton. Through these brands, we are well represented in most major markets around the world. Our operations are grouped into two business segments, hotels and vacation ownership operations. Our revenue and earnings are derived primarily from hotel operations, which include the operation of our owned hotels; management and other fees earned from hotels we manage pursuant to management contracts; and the receipt of franchise and other fees. Our hotel business emphasizes the global operation of hotels and resorts primarily in the luxury and upscale segment of the lodging industry. We seek to acquire interests in, or management or franchise rights with respect to properties in this segment. At December 31, 2004, our hotel portfolio included owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels totaling 733 hotels with approximately 231,000 rooms in more than 80 countries, and is comprised of 140 hotels that we own or lease or in which we have a majority equity interest, 283 hotels managed by us on behalf of third party owners (including entities in which we have a minority equity interest) and 310 hotels for which we receive franchise fees. Our revenues and earnings are also derived from the development, ownership and operation of vacation ownership resorts, marketing and selling VOIs in the resorts and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests. Generally these resorts are marketed under the brand names mentioned above. At December 31, 2004, we had 19 vacation ownership resorts in the United States and the Bahamas. The Trust was organized in 1969, and the Corporation was incorporated in 1980, both under the laws of Maryland. Sheraton Hotels & Resorts and Westin Hotels & Resorts, Starwoods largest brands, have been 10 Table of Contents serving guests for more than 60 years. Starwood Vacation Ownership (and its predecessor, Vistana, Inc.) has been selling VOIs for more than 20 years. Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, New York 10604, and our telephone number is (914) 640 8100. For a discussion of our revenues, profits, assets and geographical segments, see the notes to financial statements of this Joint Annual Report. For additional information concerning our business, see Item 2. Properties, of this Joint Annual Report. Competitive Strengths Management believes that the following factors contribute to our position as a leader in the lodging and vacation ownership industry and provide a foundation for the Companys business strategy: Brand Strength. We have assumed a leadership position in markets worldwide based on our superior global distribution, coupled with strong brands and brand recognition. Our upscale and luxury brands continue to capture market share from our competitors by aggressively cultivating new customers while maintaining loyalty among the worlds most active travelers. The strength of our brands is evidenced, in part, by the superior ratings received from our hotel guests and from industry publications. In 2004 we had more than 30 of our hotels on the Cond Nast Travelers 2004 Readers Choice Awards List, including four hotels on their Top 100 Best Hotels in the World. For the third year in a row we were named the Worlds Leading Hotel Group at the World Travel Awards. Frequent Guest Program. Our loyalty program, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), has over 22 million members and since its inception in 1999, has been awarded the Hotel Program of the Year five times by consumers via the prestigious Freddie Awards. SPG has also received awards for Best Customer Service, Best Web Site, Best Elite Level Program and Best Award Redemption. SPG, which was the first loyalty program in the hotel industry with a policy of no blackout dates and no capacity controls, enables members to redeem stays when they want and where they want. SPG yields repeat guest business due to rewarding frequent stays and purchasers of VOIs with points towards free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of the participating 32 airline programs. Significant Presence in Top Markets. Our luxury and upscale hotel and resort assets are well positioned throughout the world. These assets are primarily located in major cities and resort areas that management believes have historically demonstrated a strong breadth, depth and growing demand for luxury and upscale hotels and resorts, in which the supply of sites suitable for hotel development has been limited and in which development of such sites is relatively expensive. Premier and Distinctive Properties. We control a distinguished and diversified group of hotel properties throughout the world, including the St. Regis in New York, New York; The Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona; the Hotel Gritti Palace in Venice, Italy; the St. Regis in Beijing, China; and the Westin Palace in Madrid, Spain. These are among the leading hotels in the industry and are at the forefront of providing the highest quality and service. Our properties are consistently recognized as the best of the best by readers of Cond Nast Traveler, who are among the worlds most sophisticated and discerning group of travelers. The November 2004 edition of the Cond Nast Traveler Magazine named four Starwood properties in the top 100 Best in the World, with over 30 properties listed in the Readers Choice Awards list. In addition, the Cond Nast Traveler Magazine January 2005 issue included 51 Starwood properties among its prestigious Gold List and Gold List Reserve, more than any other hotel company. Scale. As one of the largest hotel and leisure companies focusing on the luxury and upscale full service lodging market, we have the scale to support our core marketing and reservation functions. We also believe that our scale will contribute to lower our cost of operations through purchasing economies areas such as insurance, energy, telecommunications, technology, employee benefits, food and beverage, furniture, fixtures and equipment and operating supplies. 11 Table of Contents Diversification of Cash Flow and Assets. Management believes that the diversity of our brands, market segments served, revenue sources and geographic locations provides a broad base from which to enhance revenue and profits and to strengthen our global brands. This diversity limits our exposure to any particular lodging or vacation ownership asset, brand or geographic region. While we focus on the luxury and upscale portion of the full service lodging and vacation ownership markets, our brands cater to a diverse group of sub markets within this market. For example, the St. Regis hotels cater to high end hotel and resort clientele while Four Points by Sheraton hotels deliver extensive amenities and services at more affordable rates. We derive our cash flow from multiple sources within our hotel and vacation ownership segments, including owned hotels activity and management and franchise fees, and are geographically diverse with operations around the world. The following tables reflect our hotel and vacation ownership properties by type of revenue source and geographical presence by major geographic area as of December 31, 2004: Number of Properties Rooms Owned hotels(a) 140 50,000 Managed and unconsolidated joint venture hotels 283 101,000 Franchised hotels 310 80,000 Vacation ownership resorts 19 5,000 Total properties 752 236,000 (a) Includes wholly owned, majority owned and leased hotels. Number of Properties Rooms North America 437 151,000 Europe, Africa and the Middle East 175 43,000 Latin America 46 10,000 Asia Pacific 94 32,000 Total 752 236,000 Business Segment and Geographical Information Incorporated by reference in Note 21. Business Segment and Geographical Information, in the notes to financial statements set forth in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those relating to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, investments, plant, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, frequent guest program liability, self insurance claims payable, restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 21 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We believe the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are primarily derived from the following sources: (1) hotel and resort revenues at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture properties; (2) management and franchise fees; (3) vacation ownership revenues; and (4) other revenues which are ancillary to our operations. Generally, revenues are recognized when the services have been rendered. The following is a description of the composition of our revenues: Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Ventures Represents revenue primarily derived from hotel operations, including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned leased or consolidated joint venture hotels and resorts. Revenue is recognized when rooms are occupied and services have been rendered. These revenues are impacted by global economic conditions affecting the travel and hospitality industry as well as relative market share of the local competitive set of hotels. REVPAR is a leading indicator of revenue trends at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. Management and Franchise Fees Represents fees earned on hotels managed worldwide, usually under long term contracts, and franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of the our Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton and Luxury Collection brand names. Management fees are comprised of a base fee, which is generally based on a percentage of gross revenues, and an incentive fee, which is generally based on the propertys profitability. For any time during the year, incentive fees are recognized for the fees due and earned as if the contract was terminated at that date, exclusive of any termination fees due or payable. Therefore, during periods prior to year end, the incentive fees recorded may not be indicative of the eventual incentive fees that will be recognized at year end as conditions and incentive hurdle calculations may not be final. Franchise fees are generally based on a percentage of hotel room revenues. As with hotel revenues discussed above, these revenue sources are affected by conditions impacting the travel and hospitality industry as well as competition from other hotel management and franchise companies. Vacation Ownership and Residential We recognize revenue from VOI sales and financings and the sales of residential units which are typically a component of mixed use projects that include a hotel. Such revenues are impacted by the state of the global economies and, in particular, the U.S. economy, as well as interest rate and other economic conditions affecting the lending market. We determine the portion of revenues to recognize for sales accounted for under the percentage of completion method based on judgments and estimates including total project costs to complete. Additionally, we record reserves against these revenues based on expected default levels. Changes in costs could lead to adjustments to the percentage of completion status of a project, which may result in differences in the timing and amount of revenues recognized from the projects. We anticipate developing future high end VOI projects adjacent to or as part of our luxury resorts, resulting in cross selling opportunities and an audience of higher end purchasers, yielding both higher revenues and reduced risks associated with financing these VOI sales. Frequent Guest Program. SPG is our frequent guest incentive marketing program. SPG members earn points based on spending at our properties, as incentives to first time buyers of VOIs and, to a lesser degree, through participation in affiliated partners programs. Points can be redeemed at most of our owned, leased, managed and franchised properties. The cost of operating the program, including the estimated cost of award redemption, is charged to properties based on members qualifying expenditures. Revenue is recognized by participating hotels and resorts when points are redeemed for hotel stays. We, through the services of third party actuarial analysts, determine the fair value of the future redemption obligation based on statistical formulas which project the timing of future point redemption based on historical experience, including an estimate of the breakage for points that will never be redeemed, and an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed. Actual expenditures for SPG may differ from the actuarially determined liability. The total actuarially determined liability as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 is 22 Table of Contents $255 million and $201 million, respectively. A 10% reduction in the breakage of points would result in an increase of $38 million to the liability at December 31, 2004. Long Lived Assets. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets for impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows of the assets to the net book value of the assets if certain trigger events occur. If the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is charged to current earnings. Fair value is based upon discounted cash flows of the assets at a rate deemed reasonable for the type of asset and prevailing market conditions, appraisals and, if appropriate, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets based on our plans, at the time, for such assets and such qualitative factors as future development in the surrounding area, status of expected local competition and projected incremental income from renovations. Changes to our plans, including a decision to dispose of or change the intended use of an asset, can have a material impact on the carrying value of the asset. When a decision is made to sell an asset, we do not record that asset as held for sale until all the criteria in SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, have been met and we have received a non refundable deposit. Legal Contingencies. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, requires that an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss and changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Income Taxes. We provide for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Our operating results for 2004 improved significantly when compared to 2003 due, in large part, to the continued economic recovery in the United States, particularly its effect on the hospitality industry. Our operating results for a substantial part of 2003 were significantly impacted by the weakened worldwide economic environment, the war in Iraq and its aftermath, and the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic, all of which resulted in a dramatic slowdown in business and international travel. In the latter part of 2003 and continuing into 2004, transient travel in North America, where we have our largest concentration of owned hotels, began to increase, more than offsetting the then weaknesses in group travel. We derive the majority of our revenues and operating income from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels and, as discussed above, a significant portion of these results are driven by these hotels in North America. Total revenues generated from our hotels in North America for the years ending December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $2.423 billion and $2.285 billion, respectively (our worldwide owned, leased and consolidated joint venture revenues were $3.326 billion and $3,085 billion for 2004 and 2003, respectively). 23 Table of Contents The following represents the geographical breakdown of our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture revenues in North America by metropolitan area for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003: Top Ten Metropolitan Areas as a % of Owned North America Revenues for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 with Comparable Data for 2003 2004 2003 Metropolitan Area Revenues Revenues New York, NY 19.2 % 17.1 % Boston, MA 9.4 % 9.2 % San Diego, CA 5.2 % 5.8 % Phoenix, AZ 5.0 % 4.9 % Los Angeles Long Beach, CA 4.8 % 4.6 % Atlanta, GA 4.4 % 4.7 % Toronto, Canada 3.9 % 3.3 % Seattle, WA 3.8 % 3.9 % Maui, HI 3.5 % 3.1 % Houston, TX 2.8 % 2.7 % All Other 38.0 % 40.7 % Total 100 % 100 % A leading indicator for the performance of our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels is REVPAR, which we consider to be a meaningful indicator of our performance, as it measures the period over period growth in rooms revenue for comparable properties. This is particularly the case in the United States where there is no impact on this measure from foreign exchange rates. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2003 Continuing Operations Revenues. Total revenues, including other revenues from managed and franchised properties, were $5.368 billion, an increase of $738 million when compared to 2003 levels. Revenues reflect a 7.8% increase in revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels to $3.326 billion for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $3.085 billion in the corresponding period of 2003, an increase of $164 million in management fees, franchise fees and other income to $419 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $255 million in the corresponding period of 2003, an increase of $201 million in vacation ownership and residential revenues to $640 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $439 million in the corresponding period of 2003 and an increase of $132 million in other revenues from managed and franchised properties to $983 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $851 million in the corresponding period of 2003. The increase in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels is due in large part to the continued economic recovery, particularly its effect on the hospitality industry. The war in Iraq, the SARS epidemic and the weakened worldwide economic environment in 2003 negatively impacted the results for a substantial part of the year ended December 31, 2003. Results in 2004 were also favorably impacted by the addition of the Sheraton Kauai in Hawaii which we acquired in March 2004. These improved results in 2004 were offset, in part, by the absence in 2004 of the revenues generated by 16 non strategic domestic hotels and four hotels in Costa Smeralda, Italy, which were for the most part, sold in the first half of 2003. Revenues from these hotels in 2003 were $110 million. Revenues at our hotels owned during both periods (Same Store Owned Hotels) (138 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, excluding 26 hotels sold or closed or without comparable results in 2004 and 2003) increased 11.4%, or $333 million, to $3.266 billion for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $2.933 billion in the same period of 2003 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 13.0% to $110.81 for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to the corresponding 2003 period. The increase in REVPAR 24 Table of Contents was attributed to increases in occupancy rates to 68.5% in the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to 64.7% in the same period in 2003, and a 6.8% increase in ADR at these Same Store Owned Hotels to $161.74 for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $151.49 for the corresponding 2003 period. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 12.1% for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to the same period of 2003 due to increased transient and group travel business for the period. REVPAR growth at these hotels, and thereby revenues, was strongest in major metropolitan cities such as New York, Boston, Toronto and Los Angeles where we have a large concentration of owned hotels. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels, increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to the same period of 2003, with Europe, where we have our biggest concentration of international owned hotels, increasing 13.2%. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2004 excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels in Europe increased 3.1% excluding the favorable effect of foreign currency translation. The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales and services is primarily due to the increase in the sales of VOIs of 47.1% to $531 million in 2004 compared to $361 million in 2003. These increases represent increased sales volume as well as the revenue recognition from progressing and completed projects accounted for under the percentage of completion accounting methodology as required by generally accepted accounting principles primarily at the Westin Kaanapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii, The St. Regis in Aspen, Colorado, the Westin Kierland Resort and Spa in Scottsdale, Arizona, the Sheraton Vistana Villages in Orlando, Florida, and the Westin Mission Hills Resort in Rancho Mirage, California. Contract sales of VOI inventory, which represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and rescissions and excluding fractional sales at the St. Regis Aspen and residential sales at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco, California described below, increased 28.4% in the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to the same period in 2003. The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales in 2004, when compared to 2003, was also due to sales of fractional units at the St. Regis in Aspen, Colorado and residential units at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco, California, both of which were new projects in 2004. In December 2004, we completed the conversion of 98 guest rooms at the St. Regis in Aspen into 25 fractional units, which are being sold in four week intervals, and 20 new hotel rooms. In 2004, we recognized approximately $51 million of revenues from this project. We also began selling condominiums at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco in late 2004 and recognized approximately $15 million of revenues from this project in 2004. The St. Regis Museum Tower is under construction and is expected to open in the summer of 2005 with 260 hotel rooms and 102 condominium units. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income of $164 million was primarily due to the inclusion of approximately $49 million of revenues from the Bliss spas and product sales, which were acquired at the beginning of 2004, and approximately $46 million of income (including the impact of foreign exchange rates) earned on the Le Meridien debt participation acquired by us in late December 2003. Additionally, management and franchise fees increased approximately $53 million to $303 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, when compared to $250 million in the same period of 2003, due to strong top line growth resulting from the economic recovery discussed earlier. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased to $983 million from $851 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Operating Income. Our total operating income was $653 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $427 million in 2003. Excluding depreciation and amortization of $431 million and $429 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, operating income increased 26.6% or $228 million to $1.084 billion for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to $856 million in the same period in 2003, primarily due to the improved owned hotel performance and vacation ownership sales 25 Table of Contents discussed above, offset in part by certain non recurring increases in selling, general, and administrative costs, including the accrual, not payment, for separation costs for our Executive Chairman as provided for in his employment agreement, higher incentive compensation costs commensurate with our improved performance, certain legal settlement costs, and costs associated with our World Conference in January 2004 (we did not have a conference in the prior year). Operating income at our hotel segment was $664 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $445 million in the same period of 2003. The improved operating results at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels more than offset the absence of operating income from the hotels sold in 2003 as discussed above, as well as the increased energy and health insurance costs. Operating income for the vacation ownership and residential segment was $142 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $89 million for the same period in 2003 primarily due to the significant increase in income from the sales of VOIs and the percentage of completion accounting methodology discussed above. Restructuring and Other Special Credits, Net. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, we reversed a $37 million reserve previously recorded through restructuring and other special charges due to a favorable judgment in a litigation matter. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, we received $12 million in a favorable settlement of a litigation matter. This credit was offset by an increase of $13 million in a reserve for legal defense costs associated with a separate litigation matter. Additionally, we reversed a $9 million liability that was originally established in 1997 for the ITT Excess Pension Plan and is no longer required as we finalized the settlement of the remaining obligations associated with the plan and reversed $1 million related to the collection of receivables previously deemed impaired. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased $3 million to $413 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $410 million in the corresponding period of 2003. This slight increase was due to additional depreciation expense resulting from capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels in the past 12 months. Amortization expense decreased to $18 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $19 million in the corresponding period of 2003. Gain on Sale of VOI Notes Receivable. Gains from the sale of VOI receivables of $14 million and $15 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, are primarily due to the sale of $113 million and $181 million of vacation ownership receivables during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Net Interest Expense. Interest expense, which is net of discontinued operations allocations of $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, decreased to $254 million from $282 million. This decrease was due primarily to the lower debt balances in 2004 compared to the same period of 2003 as a result of the paydown of debt in 2003 with the proceeds from asset sales, the payoff of the Series B Convertible Senior Notes in 2004, and the amortization of deferred gains recorded as a result of interest rate swap terminations completed in early March 2004, offset in part by slightly higher interest rates. Our weighted average interest rate was 5.81% at December 31, 2004 versus 5.46% at December 31, 2003. Loss On Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net. During 2004, we recorded a net loss of $33 million primarily related to the sale of two hotels in 2004, the sale of one hotel in January 2005, and three investments deemed impaired in 2004. During 2003, we recorded a $181 million charge related to the impairment of 18 non core domestic hotels that were held for sale. We sold 16 of these hotels for net proceeds of $404 million. We also recorded a $9 million gain on the sale of a 51% interest in undeveloped land in Costa Smeralda in Sardinia, Italy. This gain was offset by a $9 million write down of the value of a hotel which was formerly operated together with one of the non core domestic hotels and is now closed and under review for alternative use and a $2 million charge related to an impairment of an investment. Discontinued Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on dispositions includes $16 million related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters and $10 million primarily related to the reversal of reserves, both of which related to our former gaming business which was disposed of in 1999. The reserves were reversed as the related contingencies were resolved. 26 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2003, loss from discontinued operations represents the results of the Principe di Savoia Hotel in Milan, Italy (Principe) net of $7 million of allocated interest expense. We sold the Principe in June 2003, with no continuing involvement. The net gain on dispositions for the year ended December 31, 2003 consists of $174 million of gains recorded in connection with the sale of the Principe on June 30, 2003 and the reversal of a $32 million accrual relating to our former gaming business disposed of in 1999 and 2000. We believe that these accruals are no longer required as the related contingencies have been resolved. Income Tax Expense. The effective income tax rate for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately 10.5%. Our effective income tax rate is determined by the level and composition of pre tax income subject to varying foreign, state and local taxes and other items. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2004 benefited from approximately $28 million primarily related to the reversal of tax reserves as a result of the resolution of certain tax matters during the year. For the year ended December 31, 2003 we had a tax benefit of $113 million on a pre tax loss of $11 million, primarily due to the tax exempt Trust income and the favorable settlement of various tax matters. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Continuing Operations Revenues. Total revenues, including other revenues from managed and franchised properties, were $4.630 billion, remaining virtually flat compared to 2002 levels. Revenues reflect a 3.3% decrease in revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels to $3.085 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $3.190 billion in the corresponding period of 2002, a decrease of $10 million in management fees, franchise fees and other income to $255 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $265 million in the corresponding period of 2002, an increase of $86 million in vacation ownership and residential revenues to $439 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $353 million in the corresponding period of 2002 and an increase of $71 million in other revenues from managed and franchised properties to $851 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $780 million in the corresponding period of 2002. The decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels is due primarily to the absence of revenues generated by 16 non strategic domestic hotels and four hotels in Costa Smeralda, Italy, which were mostly sold in the first half of 2003, and offset by increased revenues from our Same Store Owned Hotels (140 hotels for 2003 and 2002, excluding 25 hotels sold or closed during these periods). Revenues from the 20 sold hotels during 2003 were $110 million, a decrease of $140 million as compared to $250 million in the same period of 2002. Revenues from our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 2.0% to $2.967 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $2.909 billion in the same period of 2002 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 1.3% to $98.34 for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to the corresponding 2002 period. The increase in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels was attributed to an increase in occupancy to 64.6% in the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to 64.0% in the same period of 2002 and a slight increase in ADR of 0.3% to $152.12 for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $151.69 for the corresponding 2002 period. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America decreased 0.2% for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to the same period of 2002. The slight decrease in REVPAR and revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels in North America was primarily due to the decline in business transient demand as a result of the weakened global economies. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to the same period of 2002, primarily due to the favorable effect of foreign currency translation. Including the impact of foreign currency, REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels in Europe increased 6.2%, in Latin America decreased 5.5% and in Asia Pacific increased 31.7% when compared to 2002. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels internationally decreased 6.5% for the year ended 2003 when compared to 2002 due to the weakened global economies and adverse political and economic conditions. 27 Table of Contents The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales and services primarily resulted from the increase in VOI sales of 30.7% to $361 million in 2003 compared to $276 million in 2002. Contract sales of VOI inventory increased 23.2% in the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to the same period in 2002, primarily as a result of sales at the Westin Kaanapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii, which sold out the first phase prior to the opening, as well as strong demand reflected in our resorts in Scottsdale and Orlando in the latter part of the year. The decrease in management fees, franchise fees and other income of $10 million was primarily due to reduced interest income and increased insurance claims at our captive insurance company offset, in part, by an increase in management and franchise fees. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased to $851 million in 2003 when compared to $780 million in 2002, primarily due to the addition of hotels to our portfolio of managed and franchised hotels. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and net income. Operating Income. Our total operating income (which includes $9 million of restructuring and other special credits in 2003 and $7 million of restructuring and other special credits and $30 million of foreign exchange gains related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso in 2002) was $427 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $551 million in the same period of 2002. Excluding depreciation and amortization of $429 million and $488 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, operating income decreased 17.6% or $183 million to $856 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to $1.039 million in the same period in 2002, primarily due to the decline in operating income at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels as a result of the weakened global economies, the war in Iraq and its aftermath and the SARS epidemic and the absence of the revenues and corresponding operating income from the sold properties discussed above. Operating income at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was $445 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $589 million in the same period of 2002. These hotels were also negatively impacted by increased energy, workers compensation insurance and other health benefits related costs and reduced cancellation and telecommunication fees in 2003 when compared to 2002. In addition, our total operating income in 2003 was adversely impacted by the nonrecurring Argentina foreign exchange gains in 2002 of $30 million. Operating income for the vacation ownership segment was $89 million in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $69 million in 2002 primarily due to the increased sales from the vacation ownership projects discussed above. Restructuring and Other Special Credits, Net. During 2003, we received $12 million in a favorable settlement of a litigation matter. This credit was offset by an increase of $13 million in a reserve for legal defense costs associated with a separate litigation matter. Additionally, we reversed a $9 million liability that was originally established in 1997 for the ITT Excess Pension Plan and is no longer required as we finalized the settlement of its remaining obligations associated with the plan and reversed $1 million related to the collection of receivables previously deemed impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we reversed $7 million of previously recorded restructuring and other special charges primarily related to adjustments to the severance liability established in connection with the cost containment efforts after the events of September 11, 2001, sales of our investments in certain e business ventures previously deemed impaired and the collection of receivables which were previously deemed uncollectible. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense decreased to $410 million in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $473 million in the corresponding period of 2002. Additional depreciation resulting from capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was more than offset by the reduced depreciation expense from fully depreciated furniture, fixtures and equipment, as we reached the five year anniversary of the merger with ITT Corporation in February 2003 and the 16 non core domestic hotels, and the four Costa Smeralda hotels which were initially classified as held for sale and depreciation suspended effective March 31, 2003. Amortization expense increased to $19 million in the year 28 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2003 compared to $15 million in the corresponding period of 2002 due to the additional amortization of intangible assets associated with costs incurred in connection with new management contracts. Gain on Sale of VOI Notes Receivable. Gains from the sale of VOI receivables of $15 million and $16 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, are primarily due to the sale of $181 million and $133 million of vacation ownership receivables during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Included in the $181 million of VOI receivable sales in 2003 are $89 million of VOI receivables which were repurchased from existing securitizations. Net Interest Expense. Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, which is net of interest income of $5 million and $2 million, respectively, and discontinued operations allocations of $7 million and $15 million for 2003 and 2002, respectively, decreased to $282 million from $323 million, due primarily to the pay down of debt with $1.1 billion of proceeds from the hotel sales discussed previously, $30 million of early debt extinguishment charges recorded in the second quarter of 2002, lower interest rates in 2003 compared to 2002 and the impact of certain financing transactions, including the issuance of debt in April 2002 and May 2003. Our weighted average interest rate was 5.46% at December 31, 2003 versus 5.64% at December 31, 2002. Gain (loss) on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net. During 2003, we recorded a $181 million charge related to the impairment of 18 non core domestic hotels that were held for sale. We sold 16 of these hotels for net proceeds of $404 million. We also recorded a $9 million gain on the sale of a 51% interest in undeveloped land in Costa Smeralda in Sardinia, Italy. This gain was offset by a $9 million write down of the value of a hotel which was formerly operated together with one of the non core domestic hotels and is now closed and under review for alternative use and a $2 million charge related to an impairment of an investment. During 2002, we sold our investment in Interval International, for a gain of $6 million. This gain is offset in part by a net loss of $3 million on the disposition of two hotels. Income Tax Expense. The income tax benefit of $113 million on the pre tax loss of $11 million for 2003 is primarily the result of tax exempt Trust income and the favorable settlement of various tax matters. The 2002 income tax provision of $2 million on pre tax income of $255 million is primarily the result of tax exempt Trust income and net tax benefits primarily related to approximately $39 million of various adjustments to federal and state tax liabilities resulting from the successful settlement of tax matters dating back to 1993. Our effective income tax rate is determined by the level and composition of pretax income subject to varying foreign, state and local taxes and other items. The tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2003 is significantly lower than the prior year due to the combination of lower pretax income and the distribution of $0.84 per Share. Discontinued Operations. For the years ended 2003 and 2002, loss from discontinued operations represents the results of the Principe, net of $7 million and $15 million, of allocated interest expense, respectively. We sold the Principe with no continuing involvement in June 2003. The net gain on dispositions for 2003 consists of $174 million of gains recorded in connection with the sale of the Principe and the reversal of a $32 million accrual relating to our gaming businesses disposed of in 1999 and 2000 which are no longer required as the related contingencies have been resolved. During 2002, we recorded an after tax gain of $109 million from discontinued operations primarily related to the issuance of new Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations in early 2002, which allowed us to recognize a $79 million tax benefit from a tax loss on the 1999 sale of the former gaming business. The tax loss was previously disallowed under the old regulations. In addition, we recorded a $25 million gain resulting from an adjustment to our tax basis in ITT World Directories, a subsidiary which was disposed of in early 1998 through a tax deferred reorganization. The increase in the tax basis has the effect of reducing the deferred tax charge recorded on the disposition in 1998. This gain also included the reversal of $5 million of liabilities set up in conjunction with the sale of the former gaming business that are no longer required as the related contingencies have been resolved. 29 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash From Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities is the principal source of cash used to fund our operating expenses, interest payments on debt, maintenance capital expenditures and distribution payments by the Trust. We anticipate that cash flow provided by operating activities will be sufficient to service these cash requirements. In 2002, we shifted from a quarterly distribution to an annual distribution, and declared a distribution of $0.84 per Share to shareholders of record on December 31, 2003 and 2004. We paid the 2003 distribution in January 2004 and the 2004 distribution in January 2005. We believe that existing borrowing availability together with capacity from additional borrowings and cash from operations will be adequate to meet all funding requirements for our operating expenses, interest payments on debt, maintenance capital expenditures and distribution payments by the Trust for the foreseeable future. Provisions of certain of our secured debt require that cash reserves be maintained. Additional cash reserves are required if aggregate operations of the related hotels fall below a specified level. Additional cash reserves for certain debt became required in late 2003 following a difficult period in the hospitality industry, resulting from the war in Iraq and the worldwide economic downturn. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, $132 million and $13 million, respectively, of cash related to these required cash reserves was classified as restricted cash in our consolidated balance sheet. The cash reserves, which are expected to continue to accrue and remain restricted through September 2005, are not expected to have a material impact on our liquidity. Once aggregate hotel operations meet the specified levels over the required time period, the additional cash reserves, plus accrued interest, will be released to us. In addition, state and local regulations governing sales of VOIs allow the purchaser of such a VOI to rescind the sale subsequent to its completion for a pre specified number of days or until a certificate of occupancy is obtained. As such, cash collected from such sales during the rescission period is also classified as restricted cash in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, we have $200 million and $56 million, respectively, of such restricted cash. Cash Used for Investing Activities Contractual Obligations. On December 30, 2003, together with Lehman Brothers, we announced the acquisition of all of the outstanding senior debt (approximately $1.3 billion), at a discount, of Le Meridien. Our approximate $200 million investment is represented by a high yield junior participation interest. As part of this investment, we entered into an agreement with Lehman Brothers whereby they would negotiate with us on an exclusive basis towards a recapitalization of Le Meridien. The exclusivity period expired in early April 2004 although negotiations with Lehman Brothers are continuing. While negotiations are continuing, there can be no assurance that transaction agreements will be entered into or a transaction consummated and if consummated what the terms and form of such a transaction would be. In limited cases, we have made loans to owners of or partners in hotel or resort ventures for which we have a management or franchise agreement. Loans outstanding under this program totaled $160 million at December 31, 2004. We evaluate these loans for impairment, and at December 31, 2004, believe these loans are collectible. Unfunded loan commitments, excluding the Westin Boston, Seaport Hotel discussed below, aggregating $46 million were outstanding at December 31, 2004, of which $7 million are expected to be funded in 2005 and $30 million are expected to be funded in total. These loans typically are secured by pledges of project ownership interests and or mortgages on the projects. We also have $78 million of equity and other potential contributions associated with managed or joint venture properties, $34 million of which is expected to be funded in 2005. We participate in programs with unaffiliated lenders in which we may partially guarantee loans made to facilitate third party ownership of hotels that we manage or franchise. As of December 31, 2004, we were a guarantor for a loan which could reach a maximum of $30 million related to the St. Regis in Monarch Beach, California, which opened in mid 2001. We do not anticipate any funding under the loan guarantee in 2005, as the project is well capitalized. Furthermore, since this property was funded with significant equity and 30 Table of Contents subordinated debt financing, if our loan guarantee was to be called, we could take an equity position in this property at a value significantly below construction costs. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2004, we entered into a long term management contract to manage the Westin Boston, Seaport Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts, which is under construction and scheduled to open in 2006. In connection with this agreement, we will provide up to $28 million in mezzanine loans and other investments ($13 million of which has been funded) as well as various guarantees, including a principal repayment guarantee for the term of the senior debt (four years with a one year extension option), which is capped at $40 million, and a debt service guarantee during the term of the senior debt which is limited to the interest expense on the amounts drawn under such debt and principal amortization. Any payments under the debt service guarantee, attributable to principal, will reduce the cap under the principal repayment guarantee. The fair value of these guarantees of $3 million is reflected in other liabilities in our accompanying balance sheet as of December 31, 2004. In addition, we have issued a completion guarantee for this approximate $200 million project. In the event the completion guarantee is called on, we would have recourse to a guaranteed maximum price contract from the general contractor, performance bonds from all major trade contractors and a payment bond from the general contractor. We would only be required to perform under the completion guaranty in the event of a default by the general contractor that is not cured by the contractor or the applicable bonds. We do not anticipate that we would be required to perform under these guarantees. Surety bonds issued on behalf of us as of December 31, 2004 totaled $38 million, the majority of which were required by state or local governments relating to our vacation ownership operations and by our insurers to secure large deductible insurance programs. To secure management contracts, we may provide performance guarantees to third party owners. Most of these performance guarantees allow us to terminate the contract rather than fund shortfalls if certain performance levels are not met. In limited cases, we are obliged to fund shortfalls in performance levels through the issuance of loans. As of December 31, 2004, we had nine management contracts with performance guarantees with possible cash outlays of up to $76 million, $50 million of which, if required, would be funded over a period of 25 years and would be largely offset by management fees received under these contracts. Many of the performance tests are multi year tests, are tied to the results of a competitive set of hotels, and have exclusions for force majeure and acts of war and terrorism. We do not anticipate any significant funding under the performance guarantees in 2005. In addition, we have agreed to guarantee certain performance levels at a managed property that has authorized VOI sales and marketing. The exact amount and nature of the guaranty is currently under dispute. However, we do not believe that any payments under this guaranty will be significant. We do not anticipate losing a significant number of management or franchise contracts in 2005. We had the following contractual obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2004 (in millions): Due in Less Than Due in Due in Due After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt $ 4,440 $ 619 $ 1,744 $ 468 $ 1,609 Capital lease obligations 2 2 Operating lease obligations 1,133 74 137 122 800 Unconditional purchase obligations(1) 161 50 65 26 20 Other long term obligations 2 2 Total contractual obligations $ 5,738 $ 745 $ 1,946 $ 616 $ 2,431 (1) Included in these balances are commitments that may be satisfied by our managed and franchised properties. 31 Table of Contents We had the following commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2004 (in millions): Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Less Than After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years Standby letters of credit $ 125 $ 125 $ $ $ Hotel loan guarantees(1)(2) 67 37 30 Other commercial commitments Total commercial commitments $ 192 $ 125 $ $ 37 $ 30 (1) Excludes fair value of guarantees which are reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. (2) Excludes a debt service guarantee since no substantial debt has been drawn. In January 2004, we acquired a 95% interest in Blissworld LLC which operates three stand alone spas (two in New York, New York and one in London, England) and a beauty products business with distribution through its own internet site and catalogue as well as through third party retail stores. The purchase price for the acquired interest was approximately $25 million, and was funded from available cash. We intend to finance the acquisition of additional hotel properties (including equity investments), hotel renovations, VOI construction, capital improvements, technology spend and other core business acquisitions and investments and provide for general corporate purposes through our credit facilities described below, through the net proceeds from dispositions, through the assumption of debt and through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate), no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments and from time to time, attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 32 Table of Contents Cash Used for Financing Activities Following is a summary of our debt portfolio (including capital leases) as of December 31, 2004: Amount Interest Rate at Outstanding at December 31, Average December 31, 2004(a) Interest Terms 2004 Maturity (Dollars in millions) Floating Rate Debt Senior Credit Facility: Term Loan $ 550 LIBOR(b)+1.25% 3.65 % 1.5 years Revolving Credit Facility 11 CBA+1.25% 3.81 % 1.8 years Mortgages and Other 207 Various 5.37 % 2.1 years Interest Rate Swaps 300 6.72 % Total/ Average $ 1,068 4.85 % 1.7 years Fixed Rate Debt Sheraton Holding Public Debt $ 1,058 (c) 6.00 % 7.9 years Senior Notes 1,514 (c) 6.70 % 4.9 years Convertible Debt 360 3.50 % 1.4 years Mortgages and Other 742 7.25 % 6.2 years Interest Rate Swaps (300 ) 7.88 % Total/ Average $ 3,374 6.11 % 5.7 years Total Debt Total Debt and Average Terms $ 4,442 5.81 % 5.0 years (a) Excludes approximately $438 million of our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, all of which was non recourse, except as noted earlier. (b) At December 31, 2004, LIBOR was 2.40% (c) Included approximately $11 million and $18 million at December 31, 2004 of fair value adjustments related to the fixed to floating interest rate swaps for the Sheraton Holding Public Debt and the Senior Notes, respectively. Fiscal 2004 Developments. In August 2004, we completed a $300 million addition to the term loan under our existing Senior Credit Facility. The proceeds were used to repay a portion of the existing revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Senior Credit Facility now consists of a $1.0 billion revolving loan and a $600 million term loan, each maturing in 2006 with a one year extension option and a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.25%. We currently expect to be in compliance with all covenants for the remainder of the Senior Credit Facility term. In March 2004, we terminated certain interest rate swap agreements, with a notional amount of $1 billion, under which we paid floating rates and received fixed rates of interest (the Fair Value Swaps), resulting in a $33 million cash payment to us. These proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and will result in a decrease to interest expense for the corresponding underlying debt (Sheraton Holding Public Debt and the Senior Notes) through 2007, the final scheduled maturity date of the terminated Fair Value Swaps. In order to adjust our fixed versus floating rate debt position, we immediately entered into two new Fair Value Swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $300 million. In May 2001, we sold an aggregate face amount of $572 million Series B zero coupon convertible senior notes (along with $244 million of Series A notes, which were subsequently repurchased in May 2002) due 2021. The Series B convertible notes were convertible when the market price of our Shares exceeds 120% of the then accreted conversion price of the convertible senior notes. The maximum conversion of notes was approximately 5.8 million Shares. Holders of Series B Convertible Senior Notes put the majority of these 33 Table of Contents notes to us in May 2004 for a purchase price of approximately $311 million, and in December 2004 we purchased the remaining $20 million, leaving a zero balance as of December 31, 2004. Fiscal 2003 Developments. In May 2003, we sold an aggregate of $360 million 3.5% coupon convertible senior notes due 2023. The notes are convertible, subject to certain conditions, into 7.2 million Shares based on a conversion price of $50.00 per Share. Gross proceeds received were used to repay a portion of our Senior Credit Facility and for other operational purposes. Holders may first present their notes to us for repurchase in May 2006. During the second quarter of 2003, we amended our Senior Credit Facility. The amendment adjusted the leverage coverage ratio for the second quarter of 2003 and for the next eight quarters (through June 30, 2005). In addition, we modified our current covenant on encumbered EBITDA (as defined) and added a restriction on the level of cash dividends. Fiscal 2002 Developments. In October 2002, we refinanced our previous senior credit facility with a new four year $1.3 billion senior credit facility. The new facility is comprised of a $1.0 billion revolving facility and a $300 million term loan (later increased to $600 million as discussed earlier), each maturing in 2006, with a one year extension option, and an initial interest rate of LIBOR + 1.625%. The proceeds from the new Senior Credit Facility were used to pay off all amounts owed under our previous senior credit facility, which was due to mature in February 2003. We incurred approximately $1 million in charges in connection with this early extinguishment of debt. In September 2002, we terminated certain Fair Value Swaps, resulting in a $78 million cash payment to us. These proceeds were used to pay down the previous revolving credit facility and will result in a decrease to interest expense on the hedged debt through its maturity in 2007. In order to retain our fixed versus floating rate debt position, we immediately entered into five new Fair Value Swaps on the same underlying debt as the terminated swaps. In April 2002, we sold $1.5 billion of senior notes in two tranches $700 million principal amount of 73/8% senior notes due 2007 and $800 million principal amount of 77/8% senior notes due 2012. We used the proceeds to repay all of our senior secured notes facility and a portion of our previous senior credit facility. In connection with the repayment of debt, we incurred charges of approximately $29 million including approximately $23 million for the early termination of interest rate swap agreements associated with repaid debt, and $6 million for the write off of deferred financing costs and termination fees associated with the early extinguishment of debt. Other. We have approximately $619 million of outstanding debt maturing in 2005. Based upon the current level of operations, management believes that our cash flow from operations, together with available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility (approximately $864 million at December 31, 2004), available borrowings from international revolving lines of credit (approximately $103 million at December 31, 2004), and capacity for additional borrowings will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for scheduled maturities, dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, marketing and advertising program expenditures, other discretionary investments, interest and scheduled principal payments for the foreseeable future. However, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and had a working capital deficiency of $445 million at December 31, 2004. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due and, if refinanced, on favorable terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above historical levels or that currently anticipated results will be achieved. We maintain non U.S. dollar denominated debt, which provides a hedge of our international net assets and operations but also exposes our debt balance to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates was a net increase in debt of approximately $13 million and $54 million, respectively. Our debt balance is also affected by changes in interest rates as a result of our Fair Value Swaps. The fair market value of the Fair Value Swaps is recorded as an asset or liability and as the Fair Value Swaps are deemed to be effective, an adjustment is recorded against the corresponding debt. At December 31, 2004, our debt included an increase of 34 Table of Contents approximately $29 million related to the unamortized premium on terminated Fair Value Swaps and the fair market value of current Fair Value Swap assets. At December 31, 2003 our debt included an increase of approximately $57 million related to fair value swap liabilities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell additional assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and vacation ownership industries and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control. On May 6, 2003, Standard & Poors announced its decision to downgrade our Credit Rating to BB+ (non investment grade with a stable outlook) from BBB (investment grade rating on Credit Watch with negative implications). On January 7, 2004, Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors placed our Ba1 (non investment grade) and BB+ corporate credit ratings on review/watch for a possible downgrade. The review/watch was prompted by our announcement that we had invested $200 million in Le Meridiens senior debt and would be in discussions to negotiate the potential recapitalization of Le Meridien. On January 27, 2005, Standard & Poors removed our review/watch and affirmed our BB+ rating with a stable outlook. Any downgrading of our credit rating may result in higher borrowing costs on future financings. In 2002, we shifted from a quarterly distribution to an annual distribution. A distribution of $0.84 per Share, was paid in January 2005 and January 2004 to shareholders of record as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On October 22, 2004, the President signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations and, as of today, uncertainty remains as to how to interpret numerous provisions in the Act. As such, we are not yet in a position to decide on whether, and to what extent, we might repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the U.S. Based on our preliminary analysis to date, however, it is possible that we may repatriate some amount up to $500 million, with the respective tax liability of up to $26 million. We expect to be in a position to finalize our assessment by mid 2005. Stock Sales and Repurchases At December 31, 2004, we had outstanding approximately 209 million Shares, 1.2 million partnership units and 651,000 million Class A EPS and Class B EPS. Through December 31, 2004, in accordance with the terms of the Class B EPS, approximately 567,000 shares of Class B EPS and Exchangeable Units were redeemed for approximately $22 million. During 2004, no shares of Class A EPS were exchanged for Shares. In 1998, the Corporations Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to $1 billion of Shares under a Share repurchase program (the Share Repurchase Program). On April 2, 2001, the Corporations Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500 million of Shares under the Share Repurchase Program. Pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program, Starwood repurchased 7.0 million Shares in the open market for an aggregate cost of $310 million during 2004. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements include beneficial interest in securitizations of $58 million, third party loan guarantees of $67 million, letters of credit of $125 million, unconditional purchase obligations of $161 million and surety bonds of $38 million. These items are more fully discussed earlier in this section and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report. 35 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. In limited instances, we seek to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. We continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. Interest rate swap agreements are the primary instruments used to manage interest rate risk. At December 31, 2004, we had two outstanding long term interest rate swap agreements under which we pay variable interest rates and receive fixed interest rates. At December 31, 2004, we had no interest rate swap agreements under which we pay a fixed rate and receive a variable rate. The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our debt portfolio: Expected Maturity or Transaction Date Total Fair At December 31, Total at Value at December 31, December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter 2004 2004 Liabilities Fixed rate (in millions) $ 480 $ 379 $ 754 $ 22 $ 432 $ 1,607 $ 3,674 $ 4,024 Average interest rate 6.25 % Floating rate (in millions) $ 139 $ 521 $ 90 $ 5 $ 9 $ 4 $ 768 $ 768 Average interest rate 4.12 % Interest Rate Swaps Fixed to variable (in millions) $ $ $ $ $ $ 300 $ 300 Average pay rate 6.72 % Average receive rate 7.88 % We use foreign currency hedging instruments to manage exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The gains or losses on the hedging instruments are largely offset by gains or losses on the underlying asset or liability, and consequently, a sudden significant change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material impact on future net income or cash flows of the hedged item. We monitor our foreign currency exposure on a monthly basis to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. Changes in the fair value of hedging instruments are classified in the same manner as changes in the underlying assets or liabilities due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2004, the notional amount of our open foreign exchange hedging contracts protecting the value of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities was approximately $562 million, which includes a hedge on a portion of the principal amount of the Le Meridien investment. A hypothetical 10% change in the spot currency exchange rates would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $61 million in the fair value of the hedges at December 31, 2004, which would be offset by an opposite effect on the related underlying net asset or liability. We enter into a derivative financial arrangement to the extent it meets the objectives described above, and we do not engage in such transactions for trading or speculative purposes. See Note 18. Derivative Financial Instruments in the notes to financial statements filed as part of this Joint Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference for further description of derivative financial instruments. 
 
