Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such forward looking statements may include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Starwood, its Directors or its officers with respect to the matters discussed in this Annual Report. All forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties set forth below. Starwood undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect current or future events or circumstances. Item 1. Business. General We are one of the worlds largest hotel and leisure companies. We conduct our hotel and leisure business both directly and through our subsidiaries. Our brand names include the following: St. Regis (luxury full service hotels, resorts and residences) are for connoisseurs who desire the finest expressions of luxury. They provide flawless and bespoke service to high end leisure and business travelers. St. Regis hotels are located in the ultimate locations within the worlds most desired destinations, important emerging markets and yet to be discovered paradises, and they typically have individual design characteristics to capture the distinctive personality of each location. The Luxury Collection (luxury full service hotels and resorts) is a group of unique hotels and resorts offering exceptional service to an elite clientele. From legendary palaces and remote retreats to timeless modern classics, these remarkable hotels and resorts enable the most discerning traveler to collect a world of unique, authentic and enriching experiences indigenous to each destination that capture the sense of both luxury and place. They are distinguished by magnificent decor, spectacular settings and impeccable service. W (luxury and upscale full service hotels, retreats and residences) feature world class design, world class restaurants and on trend bars and lounges and its signature Whatever\Whenever service standard. Its a sensory multiplex that not only indulges the senses, it delivers an emotional experience. Whether its behind the scenes 1 Table of Contents access at Whappenings, or our cutting edge music, lighting and scent programs, W hotels delivers an experience unmatched in the hotel segment. Westin (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is a lifestyle brand competing in the upper upscale sector in nearly 30 countries around the globe. Each hotel offers renewing experiences that inspire guests to be at their best. First impressions at any Westin hotel are fueled by signature sensory experiences of light, music, white tea scent and botanicals. Westin revolutionized the industry with its famous Heavenly Bed and Heavenly Bath and launched a multi million dollar retail program featuring these products. Westin is the first global brand to offer in room spa treatments at every hotel and the first to go smoke free in North America. Westin guests stay in shape at WestinWORKOUT Powered by Reebok (SM). The new Westin Superfoods menu is the latest way we bring renewal to guests, with foods considered best for providing disease fighting and health enhancing benefits due to their high nutrient and antioxidant content. Le Mridien (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is a European inspired brand with a French accent. Each of its hotels, whether city, airport or resort has a distinctive character driven by its individuality and the Le Mridien brand values. With its underlying passion for food, art and style and its classic yet stylish design, Le Mridien offers a unique experience at some of the worlds top travel destinations. Sheraton (luxury and upscale full service hotels and resorts) is the Companys largest brand serving the needs of luxury and upscale business and leisure travelers worldwide. We offer the entire spectrum of comfort. From full service hotels in major cities to luxurious resorts by the water, Sheraton can be found in the most sought after cities and resort destinations around the world. Every guest at Sheraton hotels and resorts feels a warm and welcoming connection, the feeling you have when you walk into a place and your favorite song is playing a sense of comfort and belonging. Our most recent innovation, the Link@Sheratonsm with Microsoft, encourages hotel guests to come out of their rooms to enjoy the energy and social opportunities of traveling. At Sheraton, we help our guests connect to what matters most to them, the office, home and the best spots in town. Four Points (select service hotels) delights the self sufficient traveler with a new kind of comfort, approachable style and spirited, can do service all at the honest value our guests deserve. Our guests start their day feeling energized and finish up relaxed and free to enjoy little indulgences that make their time away from home special. Aloftsm (select service hotels), a brand introduced in 2005 with the first hotel expected to open in 2008, provides new heights, an oasis where you least expect it, a spirited neighborhood outpost, a haven at the side of the road. Bringing a cozy harmony of modern elements to the classic American on the road tradition, aloft offers a sassy, refreshing, ultra effortless alternative for both the business and leisure traveler. Fresh, fun, and fulfilling, aloft is an experience to be discovered and rediscovered, destination after destination, as you ease on down the road. Elementsm (extended stay hotels), a brand introduced in 2006 with the first hotel expected to open in 2008, provides a modern, upscale and intuitively designed hotel experience that allows guests to live well and feel in control. Inspired by Westin, Element hotels promote balance through a thoughtful, upscale environment. Decidedly modern with an emphasis on nature, Element is intuitively constructed with an efficient use of space that encourages guests to stay connected, feel alive, and thrive while they are away. Element is the smart, renewing haven for extended stay travel. Through our brands, we are well represented in most major markets around the world. Our operations are grouped into two business segments, hotels and vacation ownership and residential operations. Our revenue and earnings are derived primarily from hotel operations, which include management and other fees earned from hotels we manage pursuant to management contracts, the receipt of franchise and other fees and the operation of our owned hotels. Our hotel business emphasizes the global operation of hotels and resorts primarily in the luxury and upscale segment of the lodging industry. We seek to acquire interests in, or management or franchise rights with respect to properties in this segment. At December 31, 2007, our hotel portfolio included owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels totaling 897 hotels with approximately 275,000 rooms in approximately 100 countries, and is comprised of 74 hotels that we own or lease or in which we have a majority equity interest, 415 hotels managed by 2 Table of Contents us on behalf of third party owners (including entities in which we have a minority equity interest) and 408 hotels for which we receive franchise fees. Our revenues and earnings are also derived from the development, ownership and operation of vacation ownership resorts, marketing and selling vacation ownership interests (VOIs) in the resorts and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests. Generally these resorts are marketed under the brand names described above. Additionally, our revenues and earnings are derived from the development, marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects owned by us as well as fees earned from the marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects developed by third party owners of hotels operated under our brands. At December 31, 2007, we had 28 owned vacation ownership resorts and residential properties, including sites held for development, in the United States, Mexico, and the Bahamas. The Corporation was incorporated in 1980 under the laws of Maryland. Sheraton Hotels Resorts and Westin Hotels Resorts, Starwoods largest brands, have been serving guests for more than 60 years. Starwood Vacation Ownership (and its predecessor, Vistana, Inc.) has been selling VOIs for more than 20 years. Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, New York 10604, and our telephone number is (914) 640 8100. For a discussion of our revenues, profits, assets and geographical segments, see the notes to financial statements of this Annual Report. For additional information concerning our business, see Item 2. Properties, of this Annual Report. Competitive Strengths Management believes that the following factors contribute to our position as a leader in the lodging and vacation ownership industry and provide a foundation for the Companys business strategy: Brand Strength. We have assumed a leadership position in markets worldwide based on our superior global distribution, coupled with strong brands and brand recognition. Our upscale and luxury brands continue to capture market share from our competitors by aggressively cultivating new customers while maintaining loyalty among the worlds most active travelers. The strength of our brands is evidenced, in part, by the superior ratings received from our hotel guests and from industry publications. Frequent Guest Program. Our loyalty program, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), made headlines when it launched in 1999 with a breakthrough policy of no blackout dates and no capacity controls, allowing members to redeem free nights anytime, anywhere. Since then, the program has grown to include more than 41 million members and continues to be cited for its hassle free award redemption, outstanding customer service, dedicated member website and innovative promotions and benefits for elite members. The program yields repeat guest business by uniting a world of distinctive hotels and rewarding customers with the rewards and recognition they want from points that can be used for free hotel stays, indulgent experiences and airline miles with 32 participating airlines. Significant Presence in Top Markets. Our luxury and upscale hotel and resort assets are well positioned throughout the world. These assets are primarily located in major cities and resort areas that management believes have historically demonstrated a strong breadth, depth and growing demand for luxury and upscale hotels and resorts, in which the supply of sites suitable for hotel development has been limited and in which development of such sites is relatively expensive. Premier and Distinctive Properties. We control a distinguished and diversified group of hotel properties throughout the world, including the St. Regis in New York, New York; The Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona; the Hotel Gritti Palace in Venice, Italy; and the St. Regis in Beijing, China. These are among the leading hotels in the industry and are at the forefront of providing the highest quality and service. Our properties are consistently recognized as the best of the best by readers of Cond Nast Traveler, who are among the worlds most sophisticated and discerning group of travelers. Scale. As one of the largest hotel and leisure companies focusing on the luxury and upscale full service lodging market, we have the scale to support our core marketing and reservation functions. We also believe that our scale will contribute to lower our cost of operations through purchasing economies in areas such as insurance, 3 Table of Contents energy, telecommunications, technology, employee benefits, food and beverage, furniture, fixtures and equipment and operating supplies. We feel we are well positioned for significant growth based on our headcount. We currently have approximately half of the base of rooms compared to our major competitors, and as a result, as we increase our room count, our economies of scale should provide a favorable impact to our operations given our existing cost structure. Diversification of Cash Flow and Assets. Management believes that the diversity of our brands, market segments served, revenue sources and geographic locations provide a broad base from which to enhance revenue and profits and to strengthen our global brands. This diversity limits our exposure to any particular lodging or vacation ownership asset, brand or geographic region. While we focus on the luxury and upscale portion of the full service lodging, vacation ownership and residential markets, our brands cater to a diverse group of sub markets within this market. For example, the St. Regis hotels cater to high end hotel and resort clientele while Four Points by Sheraton hotels deliver extensive amenities and services at more affordable rates. The aloft brand will provide a youthful alternative to the commodity lodging of currently existing brands in the select service market segment, and the Element brand will provide modern, upscale hotels for extended stay travel. We derive our cash flow from multiple sources within our hotel and vacation ownership and residential segments, including owned hotels operations, management and franchise fees and the sale of VOIs and residential units. These operations are in geographically diverse locations around the world. The following tables reflect our hotel and vacation ownership and residential properties by type of revenue source and geographical presence by major geographic area as of December 31, 2007: Number of Properties Rooms Managed and unconsolidated joint venture hotels 415 140,800 Franchised hotels 408 109,100 Owned hotels(a) 74 24,700 Vacation ownership resorts and residential properties 28 7,400 Total properties 925 282,000 (a) Includes wholly owned, majority owned and leased hotels. Number of Properties Rooms North America (and Caribbean) 472 160,200 Europe, Africa and the Middle East 261 63,800 Asia Pacific 136 46,100 Latin America 56 11,900 Total 925 282,000 Business Segment and Geographical Information Incorporated by reference in Note 23. Business Segment and Geographical Information, in the notes to financial statements set forth in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those relating to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, investments, plant, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, frequent guest program liability, self insurance claims payable, restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 26 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We believe the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are primarily derived from the following sources: (1) hotel and resort revenues at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture properties; (2) vacation ownership and residential revenues; (3) management and franchise revenues; (4) revenues from managed and franchised properties; and (5) other revenues which are ancillary to our operations. Generally, revenues are recognized when the services have been rendered. The following is a description of the composition of our revenues: Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Ventures Represents revenue primarily derived from hotel operations, including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned, leased or consolidated joint venture hotels and resorts. Revenue is recognized when rooms are occupied and services have been rendered. These revenues are impacted by global economic conditions affecting the travel and hospitality industry as well as relative market share of the local competitive set of hotels. REVPAR is a leading indicator of revenue trends at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels as it measures the period over period growth in rooms revenue for comparable properties. Vacation Ownership and Residential We recognize revenue from VOI sales and financings and the sales of residential units which are typically a component of mixed use projects that include a hotel. Such revenues are impacted by the state of the global economies and, in particular, the U.S. economy, as well as interest rate and other economic conditions affecting the lending market. Revenue is generally recognized upon the buyer demonstrating a sufficient level of initial and continuing involvement, the period of cancellation with refund has expired and receivables are deemed collectible. We determine the portion of revenues to recognize for sales accounted for under the percentage of completion method based on judgments and estimates including total project costs to complete. Additionally, we record reserves against these revenues based on expected default levels. Changes in costs could lead to adjustments to the percentage of completion status of a project, which may result in differences in the timing and amount of revenues recognized from the projects. We have also entered into licensing agreements with third party developers to offer consumers branded condominiums or residences. Our fees from these agreements are generally based on the gross sales revenue of units sold. Management and Franchise Revenues Represents fees earned on hotels managed worldwide, usually under long term contracts, franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of our Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Le Mridien and Luxury Collection brand names, termination fees and the amortization of deferred gains related to sold properties for which we have significant continuing involvement, offset by payments by us under performance and other guarantees. Management fees are comprised of a base fee, which is generally based on a percentage of gross revenues, and an incentive fee, which is generally based on the propertys profitability. For any time during the year, when the provisions of our management contracts allow receipt of incentive fees upon termination, incentive fees are recognized for the fees due and earned as if the contract was terminated at that date, exclusive of any termination fees due or payable. Therefore, during periods prior to year end, the incentive fees recorded may not be indicative of the eventual incentive fees that will be recognized at year end as conditions and incentive hurdle calculations may not be final. Franchise fees are generally based on a percentage of hotel room revenues. As with hotel revenues discussed above, these revenue sources are affected by conditions impacting the travel and hospitality industry as well as competition from other hotel management and franchise companies. Revenues from Managed and Franchised Properties These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees. These costs relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Frequent Guest Program. SPG is our frequent guest incentive marketing program. SPG members earn points based on spending at our properties, as incentives to first time buyers of VOIs and residences and through participation in affiliated programs. Points can be redeemed at substantially all of our owned, leased, managed and 27 Table of Contents franchised properties as well as through other redemption opportunities with third parties, such as conversion to airline miles. Properties are charged based on hotel guests qualifying expenditures. Revenue is recognized by participating hotels and resorts when points are redeemed for hotel stays. We, through the services of third party actuarial analysts, determine the fair value of the future redemption obligation based on statistical formulas which project the timing of future point redemption based on historical experience, including an estimate of the breakage for points that will never be redeemed, and an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed as well as the cost of reimbursing hotels and other third parties in respect of other redemption opportunities for point redemptions. Actual expenditures for SPG may differ from the actuarially determined liability. The total actuarially determined liability as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 is $536 million and $409 million, respectively. A 10% reduction in the breakage of points would result in an estimated increase of $71 million to the liability at December 31, 2007. Long Lived Assets. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets for impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows of the assets to the net book value of the assets if certain trigger events occur. If the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is charged to current earnings. Fair value is based upon discounted cash flows of the assets at a rate deemed reasonable for the type of asset and prevailing market conditions, appraisals and, if appropriate, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets based on our plans, at the time, for such assets and such qualitative factors as future development in the surrounding area, status of expected local competition and projected incremental income from renovations. Changes to our plans, including a decision to dispose of or change the intended use of an asset, can have a material impact on the carrying value of the asset. Assets Held for Sale. We consider properties to be assets held for sale when management approves and commits to a formal plan to actively market a property or group of properties for sale and a signed sales contract and significant non refundable deposit or contract break up fee exist. Upon designation as an asset held for sale, we record the carrying value of each property or group of properties at the lower of its carrying value which includes allocable segment goodwill or its estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell, and we stop recording depreciation expense. Any gain realized in connection with the sale of a property for which we have significant continuing involvement (such as through a long term management agreement) is deferred and recognized over the initial term of the related agreement. The operations of the properties held for sale prior to the sale date are recorded in discontinued operations unless we will have continuing involvement (such as through a management or franchise agreement) after the sale. Legal Contingencies. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, requires that an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Income Taxes. We provide for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. 28 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Continuing Operations Revenues. Total revenues, including other revenues from managed and franchised properties, were $6.153 billion, an increase of $174 million when compared to 2006 levels. Revenues reflected a 9.8% decrease in revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels to $2.429 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $2.692 billion in the corresponding period of 2006, a 20.4% increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income to $839 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $697 million in the corresponding period of 2006, a 2.0% increase in vacation ownership and residential revenues to $1.025 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.005 billion in the corresponding period of 2006, and an increase of $275 million in other revenues from managed and franchised properties to $1.860 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.585 billion in the corresponding period of 2006. The $263 million decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was primarily due to lost revenues from 56 wholly owned hotels sold or closed in 2007 and 2006. The sold or closed hotels had revenues of $121 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $570 million in the corresponding period of 2006. The decrease in revenues from sold or closed hotels was partially offset by improved results at our remaining owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (66 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, excluding 56 hotels sold or closed and 8 hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2007 and 2006) increased 9.1%, or $173 million, to $2.068 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.895 billion in the same period of 2006 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 10.2% to $160.38 for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the corresponding 2006 period. The increase in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels was attributed to a 9.2% increase in ADR to $222.03 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $203.31 for the corresponding 2006 period and due to a slight increase in occupancy rates to 72.2% in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to 71.6% in the same period in 2006. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period of 2006. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in Kauai, Hawaii, New York, New York, San Francisco, California and New Orleans, Louisiana. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period of 2006. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in Australia, Austria and Italy. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 7.8% excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income of $142 million was primarily a result of a $123 million increase in management and franchise revenue to $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was due to the strong growth in REVPAR at existing hotels under management and the net addition of 34 managed and franchised hotels to our system. The increase in management and franchise fees also resulted from the full year impact of revenues from the 33 hotels sold to Host in the second quarter of 2006. Management fees from these hotels in the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $63 million, as compared to $44 million in the same period of 2006. Revenues from the amortization of the deferred gain associated with the Host Transaction was $49 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $34 million in the corresponding period of 2006. Other income increased $19 million and includes $18 million of income earned in the first quarter of 2007 from our carried interest in a managed hotel that was sold in January 2007. These increases were partially offset by lost fees from contracts that were terminated in the last 12 months. The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales and services of $20 million was primarily due to the revenue recognition from ongoing projects under construction in Hawaii which are being accounted for under percentage of completion accounting. This net increase was offset, in part, by a decrease in residential sales as the 29 Table of Contents year ended December 31, 2007 included $3 million of revenues from the sale of residential units at the St. Regis in New York compared to 2006 which included $94 million in revenues from the sale of residential units at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco, which sold out in 2006, and at the St. Regis in New York, where only a few residential units remained available for sale in 2007. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a gain of $17 million on the sale of $133 million of vacation ownership receivables. We did not sell any such receivables in 2007 and therefore no gain was recognized. Originated contract sales of VOI inventory, which represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and rescission, decreased 3.8% in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period in 2006 as the mix of products sold during 2007 differed from that sold in 2006. Additionally, sales and profits in Hawaii were negatively impacted by a decline in closing rates (the percentage of tours that were converted to actual sales of vacation ownership intervals) in the second half of 2007 due to the impending sell out of our project on Maui, partially offset by higher sales and profits at other timeshare projects. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased to $1.860 billion from $1.585 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the number of our managed and franchised hotels. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel and vacation ownership properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Selling, General, Administrative and Other. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses, which includes costs and expenses from our Bliss spas and from the sale of Bliss products, was $513 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $470 million in the same period in 2006. The increase was primarily due to investments in our global development capability and costs associated with the launch of our new brands, aloft and Element, and other brand initiatives. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $53 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment at the Sheraton Bal Harbour in Florida (Bal Harbour) and demolition costs associated with our redevelopment of that hotel. Bal Harbour was closed for business on July 1, 2007, and the majority of its employees were terminated. The hotel was demolished and we are in the process of building a St. Regis hotel along with branded residences and fractional units. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded $20 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to transition costs associated with the acquisition of the Le Mridien brand and management and franchise business (the Le Mridien Acquisition) in November 2005 and severance costs primarily related to certain executives in connection with the continued corporate restructuring that began at the end of 2005. These charges were offset, in part, by the reversal of accruals for a lease we assumed as part of the merger with Sheraton Holding Corporation (Sheraton Holding) and its subsidiaries (formerly ITT Corporation) in 1998 as the lease matured at the end of 2006 and the accruals exceeded our maximum remaining obligation under the lease. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense was $280 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, consistent with the corresponding period of 2006. We sold or closed 45 wholly owned hotels during 2006. However, the majority of these hotels were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2005 and consequently, no depreciation was recognized for either the year ended December 31, 2007 or 2006 for those hotels. Amortization expense was $26 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, consistent with the corresponding period of 2006. Operating Income. Operating income increased 2.3% or $19 million to $858 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $839 million in the same period in 2006, primarily due to the increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income, partially offset by the restructuring and other special charges and the decline in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels discussed above. 30 Table of Contents Equity Earnings and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net. Equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures increased to $66 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $61 million in the same period of 2006 partially due to our share of gains on the sale of several hotels in an unconsolidated joint venture during 2007. Net Interest Expense. Net interest expense decreased to $147 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to $215 million in the same period of 2006, primarily due to $37 million of expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2006 related to the early extinguishment of debt in connection with two transactions whereby we defeased and were released from certain debt obligations that allowed us to sell certain hotels that previously served as collateral for such debt. The decrease was also due to an increase in capitalized interest related to vacation ownership projects under construction and a decrease in our overall interest rate. Our weighted average interest rate was 6.52% at December 31, 2007 versus 6.97% at December 31, 2006. Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net. During 2007, we recorded a net loss of $44 million, primarily related to a net loss of $58 million on the sale of eight wholly owned hotels, $20 million of which related to four hotels that closed in the fourth quarter. These losses were offset in part by $20 million of net gains primarily on the sale of assets in which we held a minority interest and a gain of $6 million as a result of insurance proceeds received for property damage caused by storms at two owned hotels in prior years. During 2006, we recorded a net loss of $3 million primarily related to several offsetting gains and losses, including the sale of ten wholly owned hotels, which were sold unencumbered by management agreements, impairment charges related to various properties, including the Sheraton Cancun which was damaged by Hurricane Wilma in 2005, and an adjustment to reduce the previously recorded gain on the sale of a hotel consummated in 2004 as certain contingencies associated with the sale became probable in 2006. These losses were primarily offset by a gain of $29 million on the sale of our interests in two joint ventures and a $13 million gain as a result of insurance proceeds received as reimbursement for property damage caused by Hurricane Wilma. Income Tax Expense. We recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $189 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to a benefit of $434 million in the corresponding period of 2006. The 2007 expense was favorably impacted by a $114 million benefit related to the reversal of capital loss valuation allowance, a $28 million benefit associated with the Companys election to claim foreign tax credits generated in 1999 and 2000 and a $35 million benefit associated with the utilization of capital losses. Offsetting these benefits were a $97 million charge associated with the Host Transaction and a $13 million charge associated with interest accrued for uncertain tax positions. The 2006 tax benefit includes a one time benefit of approximately $524 million realized in connection with the Host Transaction, a $59 million benefit due primarily to the completion of various state and federal income tax audits of prior years, a $34 million benefit associated with Companys election to claim foreign tax credits in 2006 and 2005 and a $32 million benefit associated with the Trust prior to its acquisition by Host. Discontinued Operations For the year ended December 31, 2007, the loss on disposition represented a $1 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the loss on disposition represented a $2 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and recorded a benefit of $35 million to the beginning balance of retained earnings. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 152 and recorded a charge of $70 million, net of a $46 million tax benefit, in cumulative effect of accounting change. 31 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Continuing Operations Revenues. Total revenues, including other revenues from managed and franchised properties, were $5.979 billion, an increase of $2 million when compared to 2005 levels. Revenues reflected a 23.5% decrease in revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels to $2.692 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $3.517 billion in the corresponding period of 2005, a 39.1% increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income to $697 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $501 million in the corresponding period of 2005, a 13.0% increase in vacation ownership and residential revenues to $1.005 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $889 million in the corresponding period of 2005, and an increase of $515 million in other revenues from managed and franchised properties to $1.585 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $1.070 billion in the corresponding period of 2005. The decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels of $825 million was primarily due to lost revenues from 45 wholly owned hotels sold or closed during 2006. These hotels had revenues of $384 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $1.299 billion in the corresponding period of 2005. The decrease in revenues from sold hotels was partially offset by business interruption insurance proceeds received in 2006 of approximately $33 million, primarily related to Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Wilma in 2005, and by improved results at our remaining owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (74 hotels for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, excluding 56 hotels sold or closed and 11 hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2006 and 2005) increased 8.8%, or $157 million, to $1.942 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $1.785 billion in the same period of 2005 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 10.1% to $136.33 for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to the corresponding 2005 period. The increase in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels was attributed to increases in occupancy rates to 71.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to 69.9% in the same period in 2005, and an 8.2% increase in ADR to $191.56 for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $177.04 for the corresponding 2005 period. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 10.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to the same period of 2005. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in Chicago, Illinois, Boston, Massachusetts, and Seattle, Washington. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 10.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to the same period of 2005. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 9.5% excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income of $196 million was primarily a result of a $202 million increase in management and franchise revenue to $564 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 due to the addition of new managed and franchised hotels. The increase included approximately $44 million of management and franchise fees from the 33 hotels sold to Host, as well as approximately $34 million of revenues from the amortization of the deferred gain associated with the Host Transaction. The increase was also due to $58 million of management and franchise fees from the Le Mridien hotels in 2006 as compared to $5 million in 2005. We acquired the Le Mridien brand and related management and franchise business in November 2005. Additionally, improved operating results at the underlying managed and franchised hotels, increased revenue from our Bliss spas and from the sale of Bliss products and income associated with the settlement of a dispute related to an agreement to manage a hotel contributed to the increase in 2006. These increases were partially offset by lost fees from contracts that were terminated in the last 12 months and by lost income on the Le Mridien debt participation which was used to fund a portion of the Le Mridien Acquisition. The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales and services of $116 million was primarily due to increased sales at ongoing projects in Hawaii and Orlando as well as sales of $41 million at a new project in New York City. In addition, we recorded a gain of $17 million on the sale of approximately $133 million of vacation ownership receivables in 2006. The gain on the sale of VOI notes receivable in 2005, prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, of $25 million was reflected in a separate line in the consolidated statement of income, below operating income. Contract sales of VOI inventory, which 32 Table of Contents represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and rescission, increased 19.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to the same period in 2005. These increases were offset by a decrease in residential sales associated with the residences at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco which sold out in the first half of 2006. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased to $1.585 billion from $1.070 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements were made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses had no effect on our operating income and our net income. Selling, General, Administrative and Other. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses, which includes costs and expenses from our Bliss spas and from the sale of Bliss products, was $470 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $370 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the impact of stock based compensation, including stock option expense of $47 million. The remaining increase includes investments in our global development capability and costs associated with the launch of our new brands, aloft and Element, as well as the addition of the Le Mridien business. Operating Income. Our total operating income was $839 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $822 million in 2005. Excluding depreciation and amortization of $306 million and $407 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, operating income decreased 6.8% or $84 million to $1.145 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 when compared to $1.229 billion in the same period in 2005, primarily due to the lost income from the 45 wholly owned hotels sold or closed during 2006 and approximately $47 million of stock option expense recorded in 2006 as a result of the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, a revision of the FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, on January 1, 2006. These items were offset, in part, by the increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income discussed above. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded $20 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to transition costs associated with the Le Mridien Acquisition in November 2005 and severance costs primarily related to certain executives in connection with the continued corporate restructuring that began at the end of 2005. These charges were offset, in part, by the reversal of accruals for a lease we assumed as part of the merger with Sheraton Holding and its subsidiaries (formerly ITT Corporation) in 1998 as the lease matured at the end of 2006 and the accruals exceeded our maximum remaining obligation under the lease. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded $13 million in restructuring and other special charges primarily related to severance costs in connection with our corporate restructuring as a result of our planned disposition of significant real estate assets and transition costs associated with the Le Mridien Acquisition. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense decreased $107 million to $280 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $387 million in the corresponding period of 2005 primarily because, beginning in November 2005, we ceased depreciation on the hotels included in the Host Transaction, partially offset by additional depreciation expense resulting from capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels in the past 12 months. Amortization expense increased to $26 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $20 million in the corresponding period of 2005 primarily due to amortization of intangible assets that we acquired in connection with the Le Mridien Acquisition in November 2005. Gain on Sale of VOI Notes Receivable. Gain on sale of VOI receivable was $25 million in 2005, primarily due to the sale of approximately $221 million of vacation ownership receivables during the year ended December 31, 2005. In 2006 we recorded a $17 million gain on sale of VOI notes receivable related to the sale of approximately $133 million of vacation ownership receivables during 2006. However, as discussed above, the gain is now included in vacation ownership and residential sales and services revenue. 33 Table of Contents Equity Earnings and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net. Equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased to $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $64 million in the same period of 2005. Net Interest Expense. Net interest expense decreased to $215 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to $239 million in the same period of 2005, primarily due to interest savings from the reduction of our debt with proceeds from the asset sales discussed earlier offset in part by increased interest rates. In addition, we recorded interest income in 2006 of approximately $13 million in association with the full payment of principal and interest on a loan receivable which was previously reserved. The decrease was partially offset by $37 million of expenses related to the early extinguishment of debt in connection with two transactions completed in the first quarter of 2006 whereby we defeased and were released from certain debt obligations that allowed us to sell certain hotels that previously served as collateral for such debt. These transactions also resulted in the release of other owned hotels as collateral, providing us with flexibility to sell or reposition those hotels. Our weighted average interest rate was 6.97% at December 31, 2006 versus 6.27% at December 31, 2005. Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net. During 2006, we recorded a net loss of $3 million primarily related to several offsetting gains and losses, including the sale of ten wholly owned hotels, which were sold unencumbered by management agreements, impairment charges related to various properties, including the Sheraton Cancun which was damaged by Hurricane Wilma in 2005, and an adjustment to reduce the previously recorded gain on the sale of a hotel consummated in 2004 as certain contingencies associated with the sale became probable in 2006. These losses were primarily offset by a gain of $29 million on the sale of our interests in two joint ventures and a $13 million gain as a result of insurance proceeds received as reimbursement for property damage caused by Hurricane Wilma. During 2005, we recorded a net loss of $30 million primarily related to the impairment of a hotel and impairment charges associated with the Sheraton Cancun in Cancun, Mexico which was demolished in order to build vacation ownership units. These losses were offset by net gains recorded on the sale of several hotels in 2005. Income Tax Expense. We recorded an income tax benefit from continuing operations of $434 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to an expense of $219 million in the corresponding period of 2005. The 2006 tax benefit includes a one time benefit of approximately $524 million realized in connection with the Host Transaction, a $59 million benefit due primarily to the completion of various state and federal income tax audits of prior years, a $34 million benefit associated with Companys election to claim foreign tax credits in 2006 and 2005 and a $32 million benefit associated with the Trust prior to its acquisition by Host. The income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 included the recognition of $47 million of tax expense as a result of the adoption of a plan to repatriate foreign earnings in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act and the recording of an additional provision of $52 million related to our 1998 disposition of ITT World Directories. The income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 also included a net tax credit of $15 million related to the deferred gain on the sale of the Hotel Danieli in Venice, Italy, an $8 million benefit related to tax refunds for tax years prior to the 1995 split up of ITT Corporation, and a $64 million benefit associated with the Trust. Our effective income tax rate is determined by the level and composition of pre tax income subject to varying foreign, state and local taxes. Discontinued Operations For the year ended December 31, 2006, the loss on disposition represented a $2 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the loss from operations represented a $2 million sales and use tax assessment related to periods prior to our disposal of our gaming business, offset by a $1 million income tax benefit related to this business. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash From Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities is generated primarily from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned hotels and sales of VOIs and residential units. It is the principal source of 34 Table of Contents cash used to fund our operating expenses, interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases. Our day to day operations are financed through a net working capital deficit, a practice that is common in our industry. The ratio of our current assets to current liabilities was 0.87 and 0.74 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Consistent with industry practice, we sweep the majority of the cash at our hotels on a daily basis and fund payables as needed by drawing down on our existing revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing borrowing availability together with capacity for additional borrowings and cash from operations will be adequate to meet all funding requirements for our operating expenses, principal and interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases in the foreseeable future. State and local regulations governing sales of VOIs and residential properties allow the purchaser of such a VOI or property to rescind the sale subsequent to its completion for a pre specified number of days. In addition, cash payments received from buyers of products under construction are held in escrow during the period prior to obtaining a certificate of occupancy. These payments and the deposits collected from sales during the rescission period are the primary components of our restricted cash balances in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had short term restricted cash balances of $196 million and $329 million, respectively. Cash From Investing Activities In limited cases, we have made loans to owners of or partners in hotel or resort ventures for which we have a management or franchise agreement. Loans outstanding under this program, excluding the Westin Boston, Seaport Hotel discussed below, totaled $34 million at December 31, 2007. We evaluate these loans for impairment, and at December 31, 2007, believe these loans are collectible. Unfunded loan commitments aggregating $69 million were outstanding at December 31, 2007, of which $1 million are expected to be funded in 2008 and $51 million are expected to be funded in total. These loans typically are secured by pledges of project ownership interests and or mortgages on the projects. We also have $100 million of equity and other potential contributions associated with managed or joint venture properties, $28 million of which is expected to be funded in 2008. During 2004, we entered into a long term management contract to manage the Westin Boston, Seaport Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts, which opened in June 2006. In connection with this project, we agreed to provide up to $28 million in mezzanine loans and other investments (all of which was funded). In January 2007, this hotel was sold and the senior debt was repaid in full. In connection with this sale, the $28 million in mezzanine loans and other investments, together with accrued interest, were repaid in full. In accordance with the management agreement, the sale of the hotel also resulted in the payment of a fee to us of approximately $18 million, which is included in management fees, franchise fees and other income in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007. We continue to manage this hotel subject to the pre existing management agreement. Surety bonds issued on our behalf at December 31, 2007 totaled $99 million, the majority of which were required by state or local governments relating to our vacation ownership operations and by our insurers to secure large deductible insurance programs. To secure management contracts, we may provide performance guarantees to third party owners. Most of these performance guarantees allow us to terminate the contract rather than fund shortfalls if certain performance levels are not met. In limited cases, we are obliged to fund shortfalls in performance levels through the issuance of loans. At December 31, 2007, excluding the Le Mridien management agreement mentioned below, we had six management contracts with performance guarantees with possible cash outlays of up to $74 million, $50 million of which, if required, would be funded over several years and would be largely offset by management fees received under these contracts. Many of the performance tests are multi year tests, are tied to the results of a competitive set of hotels, and have exclusions for force majeure and acts of war and terrorism. We do not anticipate any significant funding under these performance guarantees in 2008. In connection with the Le Mridien Acquisition, discussed below, we assumed the obligation to guarantee certain performance levels at one Le Mridien managed hotel for the periods 2007 through 2013. This guarantee is uncapped. However, we have estimated the exposure under this guarantee and do not anticipate that payments made under the guarantee will be significant in any single year. The estimated present fair value of this guarantee of $7 million and $6 million is reflected in other liabilities in the 35 Table of Contents accompanying consolidated balance sheet at both December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We do not anticipate losing a significant number of management or franchise contracts in 2008. In November 2005, we completed the Le Mridien Acquisition for a purchase price of approximately $252 million. The purchase price was funded from available cash and the return of funds from our original purchase of an interest in Le Mridien debt in late 2003. In connection with the Le Mridien Acquisition, we were indemnified for certain of Le Mridiens historical liabilities by the entity that bought Le Mridiens owned and leased hotel portfolio. The indemnity is limited to the financial resources of that entity. However, at this time, we believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund any of these liabilities. In connection with the sale of 33 hotels to Host in 2006, we agreed to indemnify Host for certain liabilities, including operations and tax liabilities. At this time, we believe that we will not have to make any material payments under such indemnities. During the second quarter of 2007, we purchased the Sheraton Steamboat Resort Conference Center for approximately $58 million in cash from a joint venture in which we held a 10% interest. During the first quarter of 2007, we entered into a joint venture that acquired the Sheraton Grande Tokyo Bay Hotel. This hotel has been managed by us since its opening and will continue to be operated by us under a long term management agreement with the joint venture. We invested approximately $19 million in this venture in exchange for a 25.1% ownership interest. In December 2006, we completed a transaction to, among other things, purchase real assets from Club Regina Resorts (CRR) in Mexico. These assets included land and fixed assets adjacent to The Westin Resort Spa in Los Cabos, Mexico and terminated CRRs rights to solicit guests at three Westin properties in Mexico. In addition to the purchase of these assets, the transaction included the settlement of all pending and threatened legal claims between the parties and the exchange of a new issue of CRR notes with a lower principal amount for notes we previously held from an affiliate of CRR. Total consideration of approximately $41 million was paid by us for these items. The portion related to the legal settlement was expensed. In May 2006, we partnered with Chef Jean Georges Vongerichten and a private equity firm to create a joint venture that will develop, own, operate, manage and license world class restaurant concepts created by Jean Georges Vongerichten, including operating the existing Spice Market restaurant located in New York City. The concepts owned by the venture will be available for Starwoods upper upscale and luxury hotel brands including W, Westin, Le Mridien and St. Regis. Additionally, the venture may own and operate freestanding restaurants outside of Starwoods hotels. We invested approximately $22 million in this venture for a 32.7% equity interest. We intend to finance the acquisition of additional hotel properties (including equity investments), hotel renovations, VOI and residential construction, capital improvements, technology spend and other core and ancillary business acquisitions and investments and provide for general corporate purposes (including dividend payments and share repurchases) through our credit facilities described below, through the net proceeds from dispositions, through the assumption of debt, through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities and from cash generated from operations. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate), no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments. In the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the Host Transaction, we completed the sale of 33 hotels and the stock of certain controlled subsidiaries to Host for consideration valued at $4.1 billion which consisted of approximately $2.8 billion in the form of Host common stock and cash paid directly to our shareholders and $1.3 billion of consideration paid to Starwood, including $1.2 billion in cash, $77 million in debt assumption and $61 million in Host common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we sold ten additional owned hotels and interests in nine unconsolidated joint ventures for gross proceeds of approximately $588 million in cash. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold eight additional owned hotels and interests in four unconsolidated joint ventures for gross proceeds of approximately $209 million in cash. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete future dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 36 Table of Contents Cash Used for Financing Activities The following is a summary of our debt portfolio (including capital leases) as of December 31, 2007: Amount Outstanding at Interest Rate at December 31, December 31, Average 2007(a) 2007 Maturity (In years) (Dollars in millions) Floating Rate Debt Bank Debt $ 1,787 5.47 % 2.5 Mortgages 38 7.30 % 2.0 Interest Rate Swaps 300 9.14 % Total/Average $ 2,125 6.02 % 2.5 Fixed Rate Debt Senior Notes $ 1,641 (b) 7.34 % 5.5 Mortgages 127 7.55 % 10.4 Other 2 9.11 % 22.6 Interest Rate Swaps (300 ) 7.88 % Total/Average $ 1,470 7.25 % 5.9 Total Debt Total Debt and Average Terms $ 3,595 6.52 % 4.2 (a) Excludes approximately $572 million of our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, all of which is non recourse. (b) Includes approximately $(6) million at December 31, 2007 of fair value adjustments related to existing fixed to floating interest rate swaps for the Senior Notes. Fiscal 2007 Developments. On September 13, 2007, we completed a public offering of $400 million 6.25% Senior Notes due February 15, 2013 (6.25% Notes). We received net proceeds of approximately $396 million, which were used to reduce outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. Interest on the 6.25% Notes is payable semi annually on February 15 and August 15. At any time, we may redeem all or a portion of the 6.25% Notes at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the aggregate principal plus accrued and unpaid interest and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at the redemption rate on a semi annual basis at the Treasury rate plus 35 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 6.25% Notes rank parri passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. Upon a change in control of Starwood, the holders of the 6.25% Notes will have the right to require repurchase of the 6.25% Notes at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Certain covenants in the 6.25% Notes include restrictions on liens, sale and leaseback transactions, mergers, consolidations and sale of assets. On June 29, 2007, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for two term loans of $500 million each. One term loan matures on June 29, 2009, and the other matures on June 29, 2010. Each loan has a current interest rate of LIBOR + 0.50%. Proceeds from these loans were used to repay balances under our Revolving Credit Facility (established under the 2006 Facility referenced below), which remains in effect. We may prepay the outstanding aggregate principal amount, in whole or in part, at any time. The covenants in this credit agreement are the same as those in our existing Revolving Credit Facility. On April 27, 2007 we amended our Revolving Credit Facility to both reduce the interest rate (from the original rate of LIBOR + 0.475% to LIBOR + 0.400%) and increase commitments by $450 million, to a total of $2.250 billion. Of this commitment, $375 million will expire on April 27, 2008, and the remaining $1.875 billion 37 Table of Contents will expire in February 2011. On May 1, 2007 we borrowed on our Revolving Credit Facility to finance the redemption of $700 million of the 7.375% Senior Notes. Fiscal 2006 Developments. On March 15, 2006, we completed the redemption of the remaining 25,000 outstanding Class B EPS for approximately $1 million in cash. On April 10, 2006, in connection with the Host Transaction, we redeemed all of the Class A EPS and Realty Partnership units for approximately $34 million in cash. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we redeemed approximately 926,000 SLC Operating Limited Partnership units for approximately $56 million in cash. In February 2006, we closed a five year $1.5 billion Senior Credit Facility (2006 Facility). The 2006 Facility replaced the previous $1.45 billion Revolving and Term Loan Credit Agreement (Pre 2006 Facility) which would have matured in October 2006. Approximately $240 million of the Term Loan balance under the Pre 2006 Facility was paid down with cash and the remainder was refinanced with the 2006 Facility. The 2006 Facility is expected to be used for general corporate purposes. The 2006 Facility matures February 10, 2011 and had an original interest rate of LIBOR + 0.475%. We currently expect to be in compliance with all covenants of the 2006 Facility. During March 2006, we gave notice to receive additional commitments totaling $300 million under our 2006 Facility (2006 Facility Add On) on a short term basis to facilitate the close of the Host Transaction and for general working capital purposes. In June 2006, we amended the 2006 Facility such that the 2006 Facility Add On would not mature until June 30, 2007. In the first quarter of 2006 in two separate transactions we defeased approximately $510 million of debt secured in part by several hotels that were part of the Host Transaction. In one transaction, in order to accomplish this, we purchased Treasury securities sufficient to make the monthly debt service payments and the balloon payment due under the loan agreement. The Treasury securities were then substituted for the real estate and hotels that originally served as collateral for the loan. As part of the defeasance, the Treasury securities and the debt were transferred to a third party successor borrower that is responsible for all remaining obligations under this debt. In the second transaction, we deposited Treasury securities in an escrow account to cover the debt service payments. As such, neither debt is reflected on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. In connection with the defeasance, we incurred early extinguishment of debt costs of approximately $37 million which was recorded in interest expense in our consolidated statement of income. In the second quarter of 2006, we gave notice to redeem the $360 million of 3.5% convertible notes, originally issued in May 2003. Under the terms of the convertible indenture, prior to the redemption date of June 5, 2006, the note holders had the right to convert their notes into Shares at the stated conversion rate. Under the terms of the indenture, we settled the conversions by paying the principal portion of the notes in cash and the excess amount by issuing approximately 3 million Corporation Shares. The notes that were not converted prior to the redemption date were redeemed at the price of par plus accrued interest, effective June 5, 2006. In connection with the Host Transaction, a total of $600 million of notes issued by Sheraton Holding were assumed by the Corporation. On June 2, 2006, we redeemed $150 million in principal amount of these notes which had a coupon of 7.75% and a maturity in 2025. The stated redemption price for these notes was 103.186%. We borrowed under the 2006 Facility and used existing unrestricted cash balances to fund the cash portions of these transactions. Other. Based upon the current level of operations, management believes that our cash flow from operations and asset sales, together with our significant cash balances (approximately $366 million at December 31, 2007, including $204 million of short term and long term restricted cash), available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility (approximately $1.330 billion at December 31, 2007), available borrowing capacity from international revolving lines of credit (approximately $37 million at December 31, 2007), and capacity for additional borrowings will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for scheduled maturities, dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, marketing and advertising program expenditures, other discretionary investments, interest and scheduled principal payments and share repurchases for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due and, if refinanced, on favorable terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that our continuing business will generate cash flow at or above historical levels, 38 Table of Contents that currently anticipated results will be achieved or that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We maintain non U.S. dollar denominated debt, which provides a hedge of our international net assets and operations but also exposes our debt balance to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates was a net increase in debt of approximately $5 million. Our debt balance is also affected by changes in interest rates as a result of our interest rate swap agreements under which we pay floating rates and receive fixed rates of interest (the Fair Value Swaps). The fair market value of the Fair Value Swaps is recorded as an asset or liability and as the Fair Value Swaps are deemed to be effective, an adjustment is recorded against the corresponding debt. At December 31, 2007, our debt included a decrease of approximately $6 million related to the fair market value of current Fair Value Swap liabilities. At December 31, 2006 our debt included a decrease of approximately $17 million related to the unamortized gains on terminated Fair Value Swaps and the fair market value of current Fair Value Swap liabilities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell additional assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and vacation ownership industries and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control. We had the following contractual obligations(1) outstanding as of December 31, 2007 (in millions): Due in Less Due in Due in Due After Total Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Debt $ 3,593 $ 5 $ 1,048 $ 1,590 $ 950 Capital lease obligations(2) 2 2 Operating lease obligations 1,144 82 160 136 766 Unconditional purchase obligations(3) 114 43 49 19 3 Other long term obligations 4 4 Total contractual obligations $ 4,857 $ 130 $ 1,257 $ 1,749 $ 1,721 (1) The table below does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $469 million, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on this matter. (2) Excludes sublease income of $2 million. (3) Included in these balances are commitments that may be satisfied by our managed and franchised properties. We had the following commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2007 (in millions): Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Less Than After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Standby letters of credit $ 133 $ 133 $ $ $ On July 26, 2006, Standard Poors upgraded our rating to BBB from BB+ and revised their outlook from positive to stable. On August 28, 2006, Moodys Investors Service upgraded our rating to Baa3 from Bal and revised their outlook from positive to stable. On October 24, 2006, Fitchs Investors Service upgraded our rating to BBB from BB+ and revised their outlook from positive to stable. A distribution of $0.90 per Share was paid in January 2008 to shareholders of record as of December 31, 2007. In connection with the Host Transaction, on February 17, 2006, the Trust declared a distribution of $0.21 per Share to shareholders of record on February 28, 2006, which was paid on March 10, 2006. In addition, on March 15, 2006, the Trust declared a distribution of $0.21 per Share to shareholders of record on March 27, 2006, which was paid on 39 Table of Contents April 7, 2006. In December 2006 the Corporation declared a dividend of $0.42 per Corporation Share to shareholders of record on December 31, 2006, which was paid in January 2007. Stock Sales and Repurchases Share Repurchases. In April of 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion in Share repurchases under our existing Corporate Share Repurchase Authorization (the Share Repurchase Authorization). In November 2007, the Board of Directors of Starwood further authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1 billion of Corporation Shares under the Share Repurchase Authorization. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we repurchased 29.6 million Corporation Shares at a total cost of $1.8 billion. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $593 million remains available under the Share Repurchase Authorization. On March 15, 2006 we completed the redemption of the remaining 25,000 shares of Class B EPS for approximately $1 million in cash. In April 2006, in connection with the Host Transaction, we redeemed all of the Class A EPS (approximately 562,000 shares) and Realty Partnership units (approximately 40,000 units) for approximately $34 million in cash. SLC Operating Limited Partnership units are convertible into Shares at the unit holders option, provided that we have the option to settle conversion requests in cash or Shares. In the year ended December 31, 2007, there were no redemptions. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding approximately 191 million Corporation Shares and 179,000 SLC Operating Limited Partnership units. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements include retained interests in securitizations of $40 million, letters of credit of $133 million, unconditional purchase obligations of $114 million and surety bonds of $99 million. These items are more fully discussed earlier in this section and in the Notes to Financial Statements and Item 8 of Part II of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. In limited instances, we seek to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. We continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. Interest rate swap agreements are the primary instruments used to manage interest rate risk. At December 31, 2007, we had two outstanding long term interest rate swap agreements under which we pay variable interest rates and receive fixed interest rates. At December 31, 2007, we had no interest rate swap agreements under which we pay a fixed rate and receive a variable rate. We enter into a derivative financial arrangement to the extent it meets the objectives described above, and we do not engage in such transactions for trading or speculative purposes. See Note 21. Derivative Financial Instruments in the notes to financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report and incorporated herein by reference for further description of derivative financial instruments. 40 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our debt portfolio: Total Fair Expected Maturity or Transaction Date Total at Value at At December 31, December 31, December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter 2007 2007 Liabilities Fixed rate (in millions) $ 4 $ 5 $ 5 $ 6 $ 798 $ 952 $ 1,770 $ 1,848 Average interest rate 7.36 % Floating rate (in millions) $ 1 $ 538 $ 500 $ 786 $ $ $ 1,825 $ 1,825 Average interest rate 5.50 % Interest Rate Swaps Fixed to variable (in millions) $ $ $ $ $ 300 $ $ 300 Average pay rate 9.14 % Average receive rate 7.88 % 
 
