Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such forward looking statements may include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Starwood, its Directors or its officers with respect to the matters discussed in this Annual Report. All forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties set forth below. Starwood undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect current or future events or circumstances. Item 1. Business. General We are one of the worlds largest hotel and leisure companies. We conduct our hotel and leisure business both directly and through our subsidiaries. Our brand names include the following: St. Regis (luxury full service hotels, resorts and residences) are for connoisseurs who desire the finest expressions of luxury. They provide flawless and bespoke service to high end leisure and business travelers. St. Regis hotels are located in the ultimate locations within the worlds most desired destinations, important emerging markets and yet to be discovered paradises, and they typically have individual design characteristics to capture the distinctive personality of each location. The Luxury Collection (luxury full service hotels and resorts) is a group of unique hotels and resorts offering exceptional service to an elite clientele. From legendary palaces and remote retreats to timeless modern classics, these remarkable hotels and resorts enable the most discerning traveler to collect a world of unique, authentic and enriching experiences indigenous to each destination that capture the sense of both luxury and place. They are distinguished by magnificent decor, spectacular settings and impeccable service. W (luxury and upscale full service hotels, retreats and residences) feature world class design, world class restaurants and on trend bars and lounges and its signature Whatever\Whenever service standard. Its a sensory multiplex that not only indulges the senses, it delivers an emotional experience. Whether its behind the scenes 1 Table of Contents access at Whappenings, or our cutting edge music, lighting and scent programs, W hotels delivers an experience unmatched in the hotel segment. Westin (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is a lifestyle brand competing in the upper upscale sector in nearly 30 countries around the globe. Each hotel offers renewing experiences that inspire guests to be at their best. First impressions at any Westin hotel are fueled by signature sensory experiences of light, music, white tea scent and botanicals. Westin revolutionized the industry with its famous Heavenly Bed and Heavenly Bath and launched a multi million dollar retail program featuring these products. Westin is the first global brand to offer in room spa treatments at every hotel and the first to go smoke free in North America. The new Westin Superfoods menu is the latest way we bring renewal to guests, with foods considered best for providing disease fighting and health enhancing benefits due to their high nutrient and antioxidant content. Le Mridien (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is a European inspired brand with a French accent. Each of its hotels, whether city, airport or resort has a distinctive character driven by its individuality and the Le Mridien brand values. With its underlying passion for food, art and style and its classic yet stylish design, Le Mridien offers a unique experience at some of the worlds top travel destinations. Sheraton (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is our largest brand serving the needs of luxury and upscale business and leisure travelers worldwide. We offer the entire spectrum of comfort. From full service hotels in major cities to luxurious resorts by the water, Sheraton can be found in the most sought after cities and resort destinations around the world. Every guest at Sheraton hotels and resorts feels a warm and welcoming connection, the feeling you have when you walk into a place and your favorite song is playing a sense of comfort and belonging. Our most recent innovation, the Link@Sheratonsm with Microsoft, encourages hotel guests to come out of their rooms to enjoy the energy and social opportunities of traveling. At Sheraton, we help our guests connect to what matters most to them, the office, home and the best spots in town. Four Points (select service hotels) delights the self sufficient traveler with a new kind of comfort, approachable style and spirited, can do service all at the honest value our guests deserve. Our guests start their day feeling energized and finish up relaxed and free to enjoy little indulgences that make their time away from home special. Aloft(sm) (select service hotels), a brand introduced in 2005 with the first hotel opened in 2008, provides new heights, an oasis where you least expect it, a spirited neighborhood outpost, a haven at the side of the road. Bringing a cozy harmony of modern elements to the classic American on the road tradition, Aloft offers a sassy, refreshing, ultra effortless alternative for both the business and leisure traveler. Fresh, fun, and fulfilling, Aloft is an experience to be discovered and rediscovered, destination after destination, as you ease on down the road. Element(SM) (extended stay hotels), a brand introduced in 2006 with the first hotel opened in 2008, provides a modern, upscale and intuitively designed hotel experience that allows guests to live well and feel in control. Inspired by Westin, Element hotels promote balance through a thoughtful, upscale environment. Decidedly modern with an emphasis on nature, Element is intuitively constructed with an efficient use of space that encourages guests to stay connected, feel alive, and thrive while they are away. Primarily all Element hotels are LEED certified, depicting the importance of the environment in todays world. Through our brands, we are well represented in most major markets around the world. Our operations are reported in two business segments, hotels and vacation ownership and residential operations. Our revenue and earnings are derived primarily from hotel operations, which include management and other fees earned from hotels we manage pursuant to management contracts, the receipt of franchise and other fees and the operation of our owned hotels. Our hotel business emphasizes the global operation of hotels and resorts primarily in the luxury and upscale segment of the lodging industry. We seek to acquire interests in, or management or franchise rights with respect to properties in this segment. At December 31, 2008, our hotel portfolio included owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels totaling 942 hotels with approximately 285,000 rooms in approximately 100 countries, and is comprised of 69 hotels that we own or lease or in which we have a majority equity interest, 436 hotels managed by 2 Table of Contents us on behalf of third party owners (including entities in which we have a minority equity interest) and 437 hotels for which we receive franchise fees. Our revenues and earnings are also derived from the development, ownership and operation of vacation ownership resorts, marketing and selling vacation ownership interests (VOIs) in the resorts and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests. Generally these resorts are marketed under the brand names described above. Additionally, our revenues and earnings are derived from the development, marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects owned by us as well as fees earned from the marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects developed by third party owners of hotels operated under our brands. At December 31, 2008, we had 26 owned vacation ownership resorts and residential properties, including sites held for development, in the United States, Mexico, and the Bahamas. Due to the global economic crisis and its impact on the long term growth outlook for the timeshare industry, during the fourth quarter of 2008 we evaluated all of our existing vacation ownership projects, as well as land held for future vacation ownership projects. We have thereby decided not to pursue or continue development of several projects, the most significant of which are two projects in Mexico and the Caribbean. The Corporation was incorporated in 1980 under the laws of Maryland. Sheraton Hotels Resorts and Westin Hotels Resorts, Starwoods largest brands, have been serving guests for more than 60 years. Starwood Vacation Ownership (and its predecessor, Vistana, Inc.) has been selling VOIs for more than 20 years. Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, New York 10604, and our telephone number is (914) 640 8100. For a discussion of our revenues, profits, assets and geographical segments, see the notes to financial statements of this Annual Report. For additional information concerning our business, see Item 2 Properties, of this Annual Report. Competitive Strengths Management believes that the following factors contribute to our position as a leader in the lodging and vacation ownership industry and provide a foundation for our business strategy: Brand Strength. We have assumed a leadership position in markets worldwide based on our superior global distribution, coupled with strong brands and brand recognition. Our upscale and luxury brands continue to capture market share from our competitors by aggressively cultivating new customers while maintaining loyalty among the worlds most active travelers. The strength of our brands is evidenced, in part, by the superior ratings received from our hotel guests and from industry publications. Frequent Guest Program. Our loyalty program, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), made headlines when it launched in 1999 with a breakthrough policy of no blackout dates and no capacity controls, allowing members to redeem free nights anytime, anywhere. Since then, the program has grown to include more than 47 million members and continues to be cited for its hassle free award redemption, outstanding customer service, dedicated member website and innovative promotions and benefits for elite members. The program yields repeat guest business by uniting a world of distinctive hotels and rewarding customers with the rewards and recognition they want from points that can be used for free hotel stays, indulgent experiences and airline miles with 33 participating airlines. Significant Presence in Top Markets. Our luxury and upscale hotel and resort assets are well positioned throughout the world. These assets are primarily located in major cities and resort areas that management believes have historically demonstrated a strong breadth, depth and growing demand for luxury and upscale hotels and resorts, in which the supply of sites suitable for hotel development has been limited and in which development of such sites is relatively expensive. Premier and Distinctive Properties. We operate a distinguished and diversified group of hotel properties throughout the world, including the St. Regis in New York, New York; The Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona; the Hotel Gritti Palace in Venice, Italy; and the St. Regis in Beijing, China. These are among the leading hotels in the industry and are at the forefront of providing the highest quality and service. Our properties are consistently 3 Table of Contents recognized as the best of the best by readers of Cond Nast Traveler, who are among the worlds most sophisticated and discerning group of travelers. Scale. As one of the largest hotel and leisure companies focusing on the luxury and upscale full service lodging market, we have the scale to support our core marketing and reservation functions. We also believe that our scale will contribute to lower our cost of operations through purchasing economies in areas such as insurance, energy, telecommunications, technology, employee benefits, food and beverage, furniture, fixtures and equipment and operating supplies. We feel we are well positioned for further significant growth based on the number of hotels and rooms in our system. We currently have approximately half of the base of rooms compared to our major competitors, and as a result, as we increase our room count, our economies of scale should provide a favorable impact to our operations given our existing cost structure. Diversification of Cash Flow and Assets. Management believes that the diversity of our brands, market segments served, revenue sources and geographic locations provide a broad base from which to enhance revenue and profits and to strengthen our global brands. This diversity limits our exposure to any particular lodging or vacation ownership asset, brand or geographic region. While we focus on the luxury and upscale portion of the full service lodging, vacation ownership and residential markets, our brands cater to a diverse group of sub markets within this market. For example, the St. Regis hotels cater to high end hotel and resort clientele while Four Points by Sheraton hotels deliver extensive amenities and services at more affordable rates. The Aloft brand will provide a youthful alternative to the commodity lodging of currently existing brands in the select service market segment, and the Element brand will provide modern, upscale hotels for extended stay travel. We derive our cash flow from multiple sources within our hotel and vacation ownership and residential segments, including owned hotels operations, management and franchise fees and the sale of VOIs, residential units and residential branding fees. These operations are in geographically diverse locations around the world. The following tables reflect our hotel and vacation ownership and residential properties by type of revenue source and geographical presence by major geographic area as of December 31, 2008: Number of Properties Rooms Managed and unconsolidated joint venture hotels 436 149,900 Franchised hotels 437 111,300 Owned hotels(a) 69 23,600 Vacation ownership resorts and residential properties 26 7,200 Total properties 968 292,000 (a) Includes wholly owned, majority owned and leased hotels. Number of Properties Rooms North America (and Caribbean) 512 169,600 Europe, Africa and the Middle East 254 62,000 Asia Pacific 143 47,700 Latin America 59 12,700 Total 968 292,000 Business Segment and Geographical Information Incorporated by reference in Note 24. Business Segment and Geographical Information, in the consolidated financial statements set forth in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those relating to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, investments, plant, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, frequent guest program liability, self insurance claims payable, restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 28 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We believe the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are primarily derived from the following sources: (1) hotel and resort revenues at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture properties; (2) vacation ownership and residential revenues; (3) management and franchise revenues; (4) revenues from managed and franchised properties; and (5) other revenues which are ancillary to our operations. Generally, revenues are recognized when the services have been rendered. The following is a description of the composition of our revenues: Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Ventures Represents revenue primarily derived from hotel operations, including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned, leased or consolidated joint venture hotels and resorts. Revenue is recognized when rooms are occupied and services have been rendered. These revenues are impacted by global economic conditions affecting the travel and hospitality industry as well as relative market share of the local competitive set of hotels. REVPAR is a leading indicator of revenue trends at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels as it measures the period over period growth in rooms revenue for comparable properties. Vacation Ownership and Residential We recognize revenue from VOI sales and financings and the sales of residential units which are typically a component of mixed use projects that include a hotel. Such revenues are impacted by the state of the global economies and, in particular, the U.S. economy, as well as interest rate and other economic conditions affecting the lending market. Revenue is generally recognized upon the buyer demonstrating a sufficient level of initial and continuing investment, the period of cancellation with refund has expired and receivables are deemed collectible. We determine the portion of revenues to recognize for sales accounted for under the percentage of completion method based on judgments and estimates including total project costs to complete. Additionally, we record reserves against these revenues based on expected default levels. Changes in costs could lead to adjustments to the percentage of completion status of a project, which may result in differences in the timing and amount of revenues recognized from the projects. We have also entered into licensing agreements with third party developers to offer consumers branded condominiums or residences. Our fees from these agreements are generally based on the gross sales revenue of units sold. Residential fee revenue is recorded in the period that a purchase and sales agreement exists, delivery of services and obligations has occurred, the fee to the owner is deemed fixed and determinable and collectibility of the fees is reasonably assured. Management and Franchise Revenues Represents fees earned on hotels managed worldwide, usually under long term contracts, franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of our Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Le Mridien and Luxury Collection brand names, termination fees and the amortization of deferred gains related to sold properties for which we have significant continuing involvement, offset by payments by us under performance and other guarantees. Management fees are comprised of a base fee, which is generally based on a percentage of gross revenues, and an incentive fee, which is generally based on the propertys profitability. For any time during the year, when the provisions of our management contracts allow receipt of incentive fees upon termination, incentive fees are recognized for the fees due and earned as if the contract was terminated at that date, exclusive of any termination fees due or payable. Therefore, during periods prior to year end, the incentive fees recorded may not be indicative of the eventual incentive fees that will be recognized at year end as conditions and incentive hurdle calculations may not be final. Franchise fees are generally based on a percentage of hotel room revenues. As with hotel revenues discussed above, these revenue sources are affected by conditions impacting the travel and hospitality industry as well as competition from other hotel management and franchise companies. Revenues from Managed and Franchised Properties These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees. These costs relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. 29 Table of Contents Frequent Guest Program. SPG is our frequent guest incentive marketing program. SPG members earn points based on spending at our properties, as incentives to first time buyers of VOIs and residences and through participation in affiliated programs. Points can be redeemed at substantially all of our owned, leased, managed and franchised properties as well as through other redemption opportunities with third parties, such as conversion to airline miles. Properties are charged based on hotel guests qualifying expenditures. Revenue is recognized by participating hotels and resorts when points are redeemed for hotel stays. We, through the services of third party actuarial analysts, determine the fair value of the future redemption obligation based on statistical formulas which project the timing of future point redemption based on historical experience, including an estimate of the breakage for points that will never be redeemed, and an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed as well as the cost of reimbursing hotels and other third parties in respect of other redemption opportunities for point redemptions. Actual expenditures for SPG may differ from the actuarially determined liability. The total actuarially determined liability as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is $662 million and $536 million, respectively. A 10% reduction in the breakage of points would result in an estimated increase of $85 million to the liability at December 31, 2008. Long Lived Assets. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets for impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows of the assets to the net book value of the assets if certain trigger events occur. If the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is charged to current earnings. Fair value is based upon discounted cash flows of the assets at a rate deemed reasonable for the type of asset and prevailing market conditions, appraisals and, if appropriate, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets based on our plans, at the time, for such assets and such qualitative factors as future development in the surrounding area, status of expected local competition and projected incremental income from renovations. Changes to our plans, including a decision to dispose of or change the intended use of an asset, can have a material impact on the carrying value of the asset. Loan Loss Reserves. For the vacation ownership and residential segment, we record an estimate of expected uncollectibility on our VOI notes receivable as a reduction of revenue at the time we recognize profit on a sale of a vacation ownership interest. We hold large amounts of homogeneous VOI notes receivable and therefore assess uncollectibility based on pools of receivables. In estimating our loss reserves, we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis, which tracks uncollectible notes for each years sales over the life of the respective notes and projects an estimated default rate that is used in the determination of our loan loss reserve requirements. As of December 31, 2008, the average estimated default rate for our pools of receivables was 7.9%. Given the significance of our respective pools of VOI notes receivable, a change in the projected default rate can have a significant impact to our loan loss reserve requirements, with a 0.1% change estimated to have an impact of approximately $3 million. For the hotel segment, we measure the impairment of a loan based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate or the estimated fair value of the collateral. For impaired loans, we establish a specific impairment reserve for the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated fair value of the collateral. We apply the loan impairment policy individually to all loans in the portfolio and do not aggregate loans for the purpose of applying such policy. For loans that we have determined to be impaired, we recognize interest income on a cash basis. Assets Held for Sale. We consider properties to be assets held for sale when management approves and commits to a formal plan to actively market a property or group of properties for sale and a signed sales contract and significant non refundable deposit or contract break up fee exist. Upon designation as an asset held for sale, we record the carrying value of each property or group of properties at the lower of its carrying value which includes allocable segment goodwill or its estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell, and we stop recording depreciation expense. Any gain realized in connection with the sale of a property for which we have significant continuing involvement (such as through a long term management agreement) is deferred and recognized over the initial term of the related agreement. The operations of the properties held for sale prior to the sale date are recorded in discontinued operations unless we will have continuing involvement (such as through a management or franchise agreement) after the sale. 30 Table of Contents Legal Contingencies. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, requires that an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Income Taxes. We provide for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2007 Continuing Operations Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels $ 2,259 $ 2,429 $ (170 ) (7.0 )% Management Fees, Franchise Fees and Other Income 857 834 23 2.8 % Vacation Ownership and Residential 749 1,025 (276 ) (26.9 )% Other Revenues from Managed and Franchise Properties 2,042 1,865 177 9.5 % Total Revenues $ 5,907 $ 6,153 $ (246 ) (4.0 )% The decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was partially due to lost revenues from 19 wholly owned hotels sold or closed in 2008 and 2007. These sold or closed hotels had revenues of $77 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $121 million in the corresponding period of 2007. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (59 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, excluding the 19 hotels sold or closed and 10 additional hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2008 and 2007) decreased 1.5%, or $31 million, to $2.015 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to $2.046 billion in the same period of 2007 due primarily to a decrease in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels decreased 1.2% to $168.93 for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to the corresponding 2007 period. The decrease in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels resulted from a 1.0% increase in ADR to $237.45 for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $235.18 for the corresponding 2007 period and a decrease in occupancy rates to 71.1% in the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to 72.7% in the same period in 2007. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America decreased 1.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to the same period of 2007. REVPAR declined in most of our major domestic markets, including Atlanta, Georgia, Kauai, Hawaii and New York, New York, due to the severe economic crisis in the United States, and globally. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 0.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to the same period of 2007. Once again, due to the global economic crisis, REVPAR declined in most of our major international markets, including the United Kingdom and Italy. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 0.6% excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income was primarily a result of a $35 million increase in management and franchise revenue to $717 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was due to the net addition of 48 managed and franchised hotels to our system. Other income decreased $13 million primarily due to $18 million of income recognized in 2007 from the sale of a managed hotel that resulted in a payment of an $18 million fee to us. The decrease in vacation ownership and residential sales and services was primarily due to an overall decline in demand as a result of the economic climate, and the timing of revenue recognition from ongoing projects under construction which are being accounted for under percentage of completion accounting. Originated contract sales of VOI inventory, which represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and rescission, decreased 26% in the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to the same period in 2007. Additionally, sales in Hawaii were negatively impacted by the sell out of our largest project on Maui in early 2008. The decline in the vacation ownership business was partially offset by strong results in the residential 32 Table of Contents branding business. The increase in residential fees for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $49 million when compared to $18 million in 2007 was primarily related to fees earned from the St. Regis Singapore Residences, which opened during the year and a nonrefundable license fee received in connection with another residential project. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased primarily due to an increase in the number of our managed and franchised hotels. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel and vacation ownership properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Selling, General, Administrative and Other $ 477 $ 508 $ (31 ) (6.1 )% The decrease in selling, general, administrative and other expenses was primarily a result of our focus on reducing our cost structure in light of the declining business conditions in this current economic climate. Beginning in the middle of 2008, we began an activity value analysis project to review our cost structure across a majority of our corporate departments and divisional headquarters. We have completed the first two phases of that program which has resulted in the majority of these cost savings and additional phases are expected to be completed in early 2009. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net $ 141 $ 53 $ 88 n/a During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $141 million, including $62 million of severance and related charges associated with our ongoing initiative of rationalizing our cost structure in light of the current economic climate. We also recorded impairment charges of approximately $79 million primarily related to the decision not to develop two vacation ownership projects as a result of the current economic climate and its impact on business conditions in the timeshare industry (see Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements). During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $53 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment at the Sheraton Bal Harbour in Florida (Bal Harbour) and demolition costs associated with our redevelopment of that hotel. Bal Harbour was closed for business on July 1, 2007, and the majority of its employees were terminated. The hotel was demolished and we are in the process of building a St. Regis hotel along with branded residences and fractional units. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Depreciation and Amortization $ 323 $ 306 $ 17 5.6 % The increase in depreciation expense was due to an increase in capital spending on our owned hotels partially offset by the impact of hotels sold or held for sale. The increase in amortization expense was primarily due to the write off, through amortization expense, of an investment in a management contract during 2008. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Operating Income $ 619 $ 858 $ (239 ) (27.9 )% The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the decrease in vacation ownership sales and services as well as the decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels discussed above. 33 Table of Contents Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Equity Earnings and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net $ 16 $ 66 $ (50 ) (75.8 )% The decrease in equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to our share of non recurring gains, in 2007, on the sale of several hotels in an unconsolidated joint venture as well as decreased operating results, in 2008, at several properties owned by joint ventures in which we hold minority interests. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Net Interest Expense $ 207 $ 147 $ 60 40.8 % The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to increased borrowings to fund our share repurchase program. Our weighted average interest rate was 5.24% at December 31, 2008 versus 6.52% at December 31, 2007. The average debt balance during 2008 and 2007 was $3.802 billion and $3.114 billion respectively. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net $ (98 ) $ (44 ) $ (54 ) n/a During 2008, we recorded a net loss of $98 million primarily related to $64 million of impairment charges on five hotels, a $22 million impairment of our investment in vacation ownership notes receivable that we have previously securitized, and an $11 million write off of our investment in a joint venture in which we hold minority interest (see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements). During 2007, we recorded a net loss of $44 million primarily related to a net loss of $58 million on the sale of eight wholly owned hotels and a loss of approximately $7 million primarily related to charges at three other properties. These losses were offset in part by $20 million of net gains primarily on the sale of assets in which we held a minority interest and a gain of $6 million as a result of insurance proceeds received for property damage caused by storms at two owned hotels in prior years. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2008 2007 Year Year Income Tax Expense $ 76 $ 189 $ (113 ) (59.8 )% The decrease in income tax expense is primarily related to a decrease in pretax income and certain other one time tax benefits. The effective tax rate decreased to 23.0% in the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to 25.8% in 2007. The 2008 tax rate was favorably impacted by a $31 million benefit related to the reversal of capital and net operating loss valuation allowances, a $20 million benefit related to lower foreign taxes, and a $14 million benefit associated with tax on the repatriation of foreign earnings. These benefits were partially offset by a $16 million charge for the basis difference on certain asset sales and a $7 million charge related to amortization of prepaid taxes in connection with certain related party transactions during 2008. The 2007 expense was favorably impacted by a $158 million benefit related to the reversal of capital and net operating loss valuation allowances and a $28 million benefit associated with our election to claim foreign tax credits generated in 1999 and 2000. Offsetting these benefits in 2007 were a $97 million charge associated with adjustments to the tax benefit from the Host Transaction and a $13 million charge associated with changes in uncertain tax positions. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax For the year ended December 31, 2008, the gain on dispositions includes a $124 million gain ($129 million pre tax) on the sale of three properties which were sold unencumbered by management or franchise 34 Table of Contents contracts. Discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 also includes a $49 million tax charge as a result of a 2008 administrative tax ruling for an unrelated taxpayer, that impacts the tax liability associated with the disposition of one of our businesses several years ago. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the loss on disposition represented a $1 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and recorded a benefit of $35 million to the beginning balance of retained earnings. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Continuing Operations Revenues. Total revenues, including other revenues from managed and franchised properties, were $6.153 billion, an increase of $174 million when compared to 2006 levels. Revenues reflected a 9.8% decrease in revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels to $2.429 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $2.692 billion in the corresponding period of 2006, a 20.4% increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income to $834 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $693 million in the corresponding period of 2006, a 2.0% increase in vacation ownership and residential revenues to $1.025 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.005 billion in the corresponding period of 2006, and an increase of $276 million in other revenues from managed and franchised properties to $1.865 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.589 billion in the corresponding period of 2006. The $263 million decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was primarily due to lost revenues from 56 wholly owned hotels sold or closed in 2007 and 2006. These sold or closed hotels had revenues of $121 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $570 million in the corresponding period of 2006. The decrease in revenues from sold or closed hotels was partially offset by improved results at our remaining owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (66 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, excluding 56 hotels sold or closed and 8 hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2007 and 2006) increased 9.1%, or $173 million, to $2.068 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $1.895 billion in the same period of 2006 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 10.2% to $160.38 for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the corresponding 2006 period. The increase in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels was attributed to a 9.2% increase in ADR to $222.03 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $203.31 for the corresponding 2006 period and due to a slight increase in occupancy rates to 72.2% in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to 71.6% in the same period in 2006. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period of 2006. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in Kauai, Hawaii, New York, New York, San Francisco, California and New Orleans, Louisiana. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period of 2006. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in Australia, Austria and Italy. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 7.8% excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income of $141 million was primarily a result of a $123 million increase in management and franchise revenue to $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was due to the strong growth in REVPAR at existing hotels under management and the net addition of 34 managed and franchised hotels to our system. The increase in management and franchise fees also resulted from the full year impact of revenues from the 33 hotels sold to Host in the second quarter of 2006. Management fees from these hotels in the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $63 million, as compared to $44 million in the same period of 2006. Revenues from the amortization of the deferred gain associated with the Host Transaction were $49 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $34 million in the corresponding period of 2006. 35 Table of Contents Other income increased $19 million and includes $18 million of income earned in the first quarter of 2007 from our carried interest in a managed hotel that was sold in January 2007. These increases were partially offset by lost fees from contracts that were terminated in the last 12 months. The increase in vacation ownership and residential sales and services of $20 million was primarily due to the revenue recognition from ongoing projects under construction in Hawaii which were accounted for under percentage of completion accounting. This net increase was offset, in part, by a decrease in residential sales as the year ended December 31, 2007 included $3 million of revenues from the sale of residential units at the St. Regis in New York compared to 2006 which included $94 million in revenues from the sale of residential units at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco, which sold out in 2006, and at the St. Regis in New York, where only a few residential units remained available for sale in 2007. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a gain of $17 million on the sale of $133 million of vacation ownership receivables. We did not sell any such receivables in 2007 and therefore no gain was recognized. Originated contract sales of VOI inventory, which represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and rescission, decreased 3.8% in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to the same period in 2006 as the mix of products sold during 2007 differed from that sold in 2006. Additionally, sales and profits in Hawaii were negatively impacted by a decline in closing rates (the percentage of tours that were converted to actual sales of vacation ownership intervals) in the second half of 2007 due to the impending sell out of our project on Maui, partially offset by higher sales and profits at other timeshare projects. Other revenues and expenses from managed and franchised properties increased to $1.865 billion from $1.589 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the number of our managed and franchised hotels. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel and vacation ownership properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Selling, General, Administrative and Other. Selling, general, administrative and other expenses, which includes costs and expenses from our Bliss spas and from the sale of Bliss products, was $508 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $466 million in the same period in 2006. The increase was primarily due to investments in our global development capability and costs associated with the launch of our new brands, Aloft and Element, and other brand initiatives. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $53 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment at the Sheraton Bal Harbour in Florida (Bal Harbour) and demolition costs associated with our redevelopment of that hotel. Bal Harbour was closed for business on July 1, 2007, and the majority of its employees were terminated. The hotel was demolished and we are in the process of building a St. Regis hotel along with branded residences and fractional units. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded $20 million in net restructuring and other special charges primarily related to transition costs associated with the acquisition of the Le Mridien brand and management and franchise business (the Le Mridien Acquisition) in November 2005 and severance costs primarily related to certain executives in connection with the continued corporate restructuring that began at the end of 2005. These charges were offset, in part, by the reversal of accruals for a lease we assumed as part of the merger with Sheraton Holding Corporation (Sheraton Holding) and its subsidiaries (formerly ITT Corporation) in 1998 as the lease matured at the end of 2006 and the accruals exceeded our maximum remaining obligation under the lease. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense was $280 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, consistent with the corresponding period of 2006. We sold or closed 45 wholly owned hotels during 2006. However, the majority of these hotels were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2005 and consequently, no depreciation was recognized for either the year ended December 31, 2007 or 2006 for those hotels. 36 Table of Contents Amortization expense was $26 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, consistent with the corresponding period of 2006. Operating Income. Operating income increased 2.3% or $19 million to $858 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 when compared to $839 million in the same period in 2006, primarily due to the increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income, partially offset by the restructuring and other special charges and the decline in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels discussed above. Equity Earnings and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net. Equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures increased to $66 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $61 million in the same period of 2006 partially due to our share of gains on the sale of several hotels in an unconsolidated joint venture during 2007. Net Interest Expense. Net interest expense decreased to $147 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to $215 million in the same period of 2006, primarily due to $37 million of expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2006 related to the early extinguishment of debt in connection with two transactions whereby we defeased and were released from certain debt obligations that allowed us to sell certain hotels that previously served as collateral for such debt. The decrease was also due to an increase in capitalized interest related to vacation ownership projects under construction and a decrease in our overall interest rate. Our weighted average interest rate was 6.52% at December 31, 2007 versus 6.97% at December 31, 2006. Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net. During 2007, we recorded a net loss of $44 million, primarily related to a net loss of $58 million on the sale of eight wholly owned hotels and a loss of approximately $7 million primarily related to charges at three other properties. These losses were offset in part by $20 million of net gains primarily on the sale of assets in which we held a minority interest and a gain of $6 million as a result of insurance proceeds received for property damage caused by storms at two owned hotels in prior years. During 2006, we recorded a net loss of $3 million primarily related to several offsetting gains and losses, including the sale of ten wholly owned hotels, which were sold unencumbered by management agreements, impairment charges related to various properties, including the Sheraton Cancun which was damaged by Hurricane Wilma in 2005, and an adjustment to reduce the previously recorded gain on the sale of a hotel consummated in 2004 as certain contingencies associated with the sale became probable in 2006. These losses were primarily offset by a gain of $29 million on the sale of our interests in two joint ventures and a $13 million gain as a result of insurance proceeds received as reimbursement for property damage caused by Hurricane Wilma. Income Tax Expense. We recorded income tax expense from continuing operations of $189 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to a benefit of $434 million in the corresponding period of 2006. The 2007 expense was favorably impacted by a $114 million benefit related to the reversal of capital loss valuation allowance, a $28 million benefit associated with our election to claim foreign tax credits generated in 1999 and 2000 and a $35 million benefit associated with the utilization of capital losses. Offsetting these benefits were a $97 million charge associated with the Host Transaction and a $13 million charge associated with interest accrued for uncertain tax positions. The 2006 tax benefit includes a one time benefit of approximately $524 million realized in connection with the Host Transaction, a $59 million benefit due primarily to the completion of various state and federal income tax audits of prior years, a $34 million benefit associated with our election to claim foreign tax credits in 2006 and 2005 and a $32 million benefit associated with the Trust prior to its acquisition by Host. Discontinued Operations For the year ended December 31, 2007, the loss on disposition represented a $1 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the loss on disposition represented a $2 million tax assessment associated with the disposition of our gaming business in 1999. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and recorded a benefit of $35 million to the beginning balance of retained earnings. 37 Table of Contents On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 152 and recorded a charge of $70 million, net of a $46 million tax benefit, in cumulative effect of accounting change. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash From Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities is generated primarily from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned hotels and sales of VOIs and residential units. Other sources of cash are distributions from joint ventures, servicing financial assets and interest income. These are the principal sources of cash used to fund our operating expenses, interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividend payments, property and income taxes and share repurchases. We believe that our existing borrowing availability together with capacity for additional borrowings and cash from operations will be adequate to meet all funding requirements for our operating expenses, principal and interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases in the foreseeable future. The majority of our cash flow is derived from corporate and leisure travelers and is dependent on the supply and demand in the lodging industry. In a recessionary economy, we experience significant declines in business and leisure travel. The impact of declining demand in the industry and higher hotel supply in key markets could have a material impact on our sources of cash. Our day to day operations are financed through a net working capital deficit, a practice that is common in our industry. The ratio of our current assets to current liabilities was 0.81 and 0.87 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Consistent with industry practice, we sweep the majority of the cash at our owned hotels on a daily basis and fund payables as needed by drawing down on our existing revolving credit facility. State and local regulations governing sales of VOIs and residential properties allow the purchaser of such a VOI or property to rescind the sale subsequent to its completion for a pre specified number of days. In addition, cash payments received from buyers of units under construction are held in escrow during the period prior to obtaining a certificate of occupancy. These payments and the deposits collected from sales during the rescission period are the primary components of our restricted cash balances in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had short term restricted cash balances of $96 million and $196 million, respectively. Cash From Investing Activities Gross capital spending during the full year ended December 31, 2008 was as follows (in millions): Capital Expenditures: Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels $ 279 Corporate and information technology 84 Subtotal 363 Vacation Ownership and Residential Capital Expenditures: Capital expenditures (includes land acquisitions) 110 Net capital expenditures for inventory (excluding St. Regis Bal Harbour)(1) 131 Capital expenditures for inventory St. Regis Bal Harbour 148 Subtotal 389 Development Capital(2) 65 Total Capital Expenditures $ 817 (1) Represents gross inventory capital expenditures of $254 less cost of sales of $123. (2) Includes $3 million of expenditures that are classified as Plant, property and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheet. 38 Table of Contents Gross capital spending during the year ended December 31, 2008 included approximately $282 million in renovations of our wholly owned assets including construction costs at the Sheraton Suites in Philadelphia, PA, Sheraton Steamboat Resort in Colorado, Sheraton in Fiji, The Phoenician in Scottsdale, AZ, W Times Square in New York, NY, Aloft Philadelphia, in Philadelphia, PA, and the Aloft and Element hotels in Lexington, MA. Investment spending on gross VOI inventory was $402 million, which was offset by cost of sales of $123 million associated with VOI sales. The inventory spend included VOI construction at the Sheraton Vistana Villages in Orlando, FL, the Westin St. John Resort and Villas in the Virgin Islands, the Westin Riverfront Resort in Avon, CO, the Westin Nanea Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, HI, the Westin Desert Willow Villas in Palm Desert, CA, and the Westin Lagunamar Ocean Resort in Cancun, as well as construction costs at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Miami Beach, FL. As a result of the global economic climate, we have scaled back our plans for capital expenditures in 2009. Our capital expenditure program includes both offensive and defensive capital. Defensive spend is related to repairs, maintenance, and renovations that we believe is necessary to stay competitive in the markets we are in. Other than capital to address fire, life and safety issues, we consider defensive capital to be discretionary and reductions to this capital program could result in decreases to our cash flow from operations, as hotels in certain markets could become less desirable. The offensive capital expenditures, which are primarily related to new projects that we expect will generate a return, are also considered discretionary. We currently anticipate that our defensive capital expenditures for 2009 (excluding vacation ownership and residential inventory) will be approximately $150 million for maintenance, renovations, and technology capital. The majority of this capital would be discretionary and would be unrelated to fire, life and safety issues. In addition, we currently expect to spend approximately $175 million for investment projects, including construction of the St. Regis Bal Harbour and various joint ventures and other investments. In order to secure management or franchise agreements, we have made loans to third party owners, made minority investments in joint ventures and provided certain guarantees and indemnifications. See Note 23 of the consolidated financial statements for discussion regarding the amount of loans we have outstanding with owners, unfunded loan commitments, equity and other potential contributions, surety bonds outstanding, performance guarantees and indemnifications we are obligated under, and investments in hotels and joint ventures. We intend to finance the acquisition of additional hotel properties (including equity investments), construction of the St. Regis Bal Harbour, hotel renovations, VOI and residential construction, capital improvements, technology spend and other core and ancillary business acquisitions and investments and provide for general corporate purposes (including dividend payments and share repurchases) through our credit facilities described below, through the net proceeds from dispositions, through the assumption of debt, and from cash generated from operations. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate), no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments. Since 2006, we have sold 56 hotels realizing proceeds of approximately $5 billion in numerous transactions (see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements). There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete future dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 39 Table of Contents Cash Used for Financing Activities The following is a summary of our debt portfolio (including capital leases) as of December 31, 2008: Amount Outstanding at Interest Rate at December 31, December 31, Average 2008(a) 2008 Maturity (Dollars in millions) (In years) Floating Rate Debt Senior Credit Facilities: Revolving Credit Facilities $ 213 2.32 % 2.1 Term Loans 1,375 2.35 % 1.3 Mortgages and Other 43 5.80 % 4.0 Total/Average $ 1,631 2.43 % 1.5 Fixed Rate Debt Senior Notes $ 2,249 7.14 % 5.3 Mortgages and Other 128 7.48 % 9.2 Total/Average $ 2,377 7.16 % 5.5 Total Debt Total Debt and Average Terms $ 4,008 5.24 % 3.9 (a) Excludes approximately $642 million of our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, all of which is non recourse. Due to the current credit liquidity crisis, we evaluated the commitments of each of the lenders in our Revolving Credit Facilities (the Facilities). In addition, we have reviewed our debt covenants and restrictions and do not anticipate any issues regarding the availability of funds under the Facilities. See Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements for specifics related to our financing transactions, issuances, and terms entered into for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our Facilities are used to fund general corporate cash needs. As of December 31, 2008, we have availability of over $1.5 billion under the Facilities. The term loan maturity of $500 million on June 29, 2009 is expected to be repaid using cash balances generated from operations and proceeds from our Facilities. We have reviewed the financial covenants associated with our Facilities, the most restrictive being the leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with this covenant and expect to remain in compliance through the end of 2009. We have the ability to manage the business in order to reduce our leverage ratio by reducing operating costs, selling, general and administrative costs and postponing discretionary capital expenditures. However, there can be no assurance that we will stay below the required leverage ratio if the current economic climate continues to worsen. Our current credit ratings and outlook are as follows: SP BB+ (negative outlook); Moodys Baa3 (under review for possible downgrade); and; Fitch BB+ (negative outlook). Our debt was downgraded by SP in the fourth quarter of 2008 and by Fitch in 2009, primarily due to the trends in the lodging industry and the impact of the current market conditions on our ability to meet our future debt covenants. The impact of the ratings could impact our current and future borrowing costs, which cannot be currently estimated. We have historically securitized our VOI notes receivable as a financing mechanism. However, due to the liquidity crisis and unfavorable markets we have not securitized any notes receivable since 2006. Although conditions remain uncertain in the asset backed securities market, we are exploring a variety of avenues to sell vacation ownership receivables. However, given unpredictable market conditions, we do not currently expect to receive proceeds from securitizations in 2009. 40 Table of Contents Based upon the current level of operations, management believes that our cash flow from operations and asset sales, together with our significant cash balances (approximately $491 million at December 31, 2008, including $102 million of short term and long term restricted cash), available borrowings under the Facilities and other bank credit facilities (approximately $1.585 billion at December 31, 2008 which includes $35 million from international revolving lines of credit), our expected income tax refund of over $200 million in 2009 (see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements), and capacity for additional borrowings will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for scheduled maturities, dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, marketing and advertising program expenditures, other discretionary investments, interest and scheduled principal payments and share repurchases for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due and, if refinanced, on favorable terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that in our continuing business we will generate cash flow at or above historical levels, that currently anticipated results will be achieved or that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell additional assets at lower than preferred amounts, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing at unfavorable rates. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and vacation ownership industries and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control. We had the following contractual obligations(1) outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (in millions): Due in Less Due in Due in Due After Total Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Debt $ 4,006 $ 506 $ 1,101 $ 1,500 $ 899 Capital lease obligations(2) 2 2 Operating lease obligations 1,158 90 200 170 698 Unconditional purchase obligations(3) 98 35 59 2 2 Other long term obligations 4 3 1 Total contractual obligations $ 5,268 $ 631 $ 1,363 $ 1,673 $ 1,601 (1) The table below excludes unrecognized tax benefits that would require cash outlays for $503 million, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on this matter. In addition, the table excludes amounts related to the construction of our St. Regis Bal Harbour project that has a total project cost of $780 million, of which $226 million has been paid through December 31, 2008. (2) Excludes sublease income of $2 million. (3) Included in these balances are commitments that may be reimbursed or satisfied by our managed and franchised properties. We had the following commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (in millions): Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Less Than After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Standby letters of credit $ 115 $ 115 $ $ $ A dividend of $0.90 per share was paid in January 2009 to shareholders of record as of December 31, 2008. A dividend of $0.90 per share was paid in January 2008 to shareholders of record as of December 31, 2007. Stock Sales and Repurchases Share Repurchases. In April of 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion in Share repurchases under our existing Corporate Share Repurchase Authorization (the Share Repurchase Authorization). In November 2007, the Board of Directors of Starwood further authorized the repurchase of up to an 41 Table of Contents additional $1 billion of Corporation Shares under the Share Repurchase Authorization. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased approximately 13.6 million shares at a total cost of approximately $593 million. As of December 31, 2008, there was no availability remaining under the Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding approximately 183 million Corporation Shares and 178,000 SLC Operating Limited Partnership units. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements include retained interests in securitizations of $19 million, letters of credit of $115 million, unconditional purchase obligations of $98 million and surety bonds of $91 million. These items are more fully discussed earlier in this section and in the Notes to Financial Statements and Item 8 of Part II of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. In limited instances, we seek to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. We continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. We enter into a derivative financial arrangement to the extent it meets the objectives described above, and we do not engage in such transactions for trading or speculative purposes. At year end 2008, we were party to the following derivative instruments: Forward contracts to hedge forecasted transactions for management and franchise fee revenues earned in foreign currencies. The aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts was approximately $55 million, and they expire in 2009. Forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested. The aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts was approximately $376 million and they expire in 2009. 42 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our debt portfolio and other financial instruments as of year end 2008 (in millions, excluding interest rates): Total Fair Expected Maturity or Transaction Date Total at Value at At December 31, December 31, December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter 2008 2008 Liabilities Fixed rate $ 6 $ 5 $ 8 $ 804 $ 653 $ 901 $ 2,377 $ 1,599 Average interest rate 7.16 % Floating rate $ 500 $ 500 $ 588 $ 43 $ $ $ 1,631 $ 1,631 Average interest rate 2.43 % Forward Foreign Exchange Hedge Contracts: Fixed (EUR) to Fixed (USD) $ 51 $ $ $ $ $ $ 5 $ 5 Average Exchange rate 1.39 Fixed (CAD) to Fixed (USD) $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 $ 1 Average Exchange rate .81 Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts: Fixed (EUR) to Fixed (USD) $ 198 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Average Exchange rate 1.41 Fixed (ARS) to Fixed (USD) $ 15 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .28 Fixed (CLP) to Fixed (USD) $ 15 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .00 Fixed (MYR) to Fixed (USD) $ 18 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .29 Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (USD) $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .01 Fixed (CAD) to Fixed (USD) $ 8 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .84 Fixed (AUD) to Fixed (USD) $ 22 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Average Exchange rate .70 Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (SGD) $ 6 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Fixed (SGD) to Fixed (THB) $ 5 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Fixed (AUD) to Fixed (EUR) $ 43 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Fixed (GBP) to Fixed (EUR) $ 27 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (THB) $ 6 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 43 Table of Contents 
 
