Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such forward looking statements may include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Starwood, its Directors or its officers with respect to the matters discussed in this Annual Report. All forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties set forth below. Starwood undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect current or future events or circumstances. Item 1. Business General We are one of the worlds largest hotel and leisure companies. We conduct our hotel and leisure business both directly and through our subsidiaries. Our brand names include the following: St. Regis (luxury full service hotels, resorts and residences) are for connoisseurs who desire the finest expressions of luxury. They provide flawless and bespoke service to high end leisure and business travelers. St. Regis hotels are located in the ultimate locations within the worlds most desired destinations, important emerging markets and yet to be discovered paradises, and they typically have individual design characteristics to capture the distinctive personality of each location. The Luxury Collection (luxury full service hotels and resorts) is a group of unique hotels and resorts offering exceptional service to an elite clientele. From legendary palaces and remote retreats to timeless modern classics, these remarkable hotels and resorts enable the most discerning traveler to collect a world of unique, authentic and enriching experiences indigenous to each destination that capture the sense of both luxury and place. They are distinguished by magnificent decor, spectacular settings and impeccable service. W (luxury and upscale full service hotels, retreats and residences) feature world class design, world class restaurants and on trend bars and lounges and its signature Whatever\Whenever service standard. Its a sensory multiplex that not only indulges the senses, it delivers an emotional experience. Whether its behind the scenes 1 Table of Contents access at W Happenings, or our cutting edge music, lighting and scent programs, W hotels delivers an experience unmatched in the hotel segment. Westin (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) provides a thoughtfully designed experience making the healthiest choices irresistibly appealing. A welcoming oasis to the savvy traveler, every innovative service aims to help guests thrive so they feel better than when they arrived. Truly restorative sleep in the world renowned Heavenly Bed. Spa like invigoration with the Heavenly Bath. Healthful indulgence from SuperFoodsRxtm menus. Energizing exercise with WestinWORKOUT. Fresh air from BreatheWestinsm, the industrys first smoke free policy. Whether an epic city center location or refreshing resort destination, Westin ensures guests are well rested, well nourished and well cared for. Le Mridien (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is a European inspired brand with a French accent. Each of its hotels, whether city, airport or resort has a distinctive character driven by its individuality and the Le Mridien brand values. With its underlying passion for food, art and style and its classic yet stylish design, Le Mridien offers a unique experience at some of the worlds top travel destinations. Sheraton (luxury and upscale full service hotels, resorts and residences) is our largest brand serving the needs of upscale business and leisure travelers worldwide. For over 70 years this full service, iconic brand has welcomed guests, becoming a trusted friend to travelers and one of the worlds most recognized hotel brands. From being the first hotel brand to step into major international markets like China, to completely captivating entire destinations like Waikiki, Sheraton understands that travel is about bringing people together. In Sheraton lobbies youll find the Link@Sheratonsm experienced with Microsoft, which fosters connections, whether face to face or webcam to webcam. The Sheraton Club is also a social space where guests indulge in the upside of everything with likeminded travelers. Sheraton transcends lifestyles, generations and geographies and will continue to welcome generation after generation of world traveler, because we believe, as strongly as ever, that life is better when shared. Four Points (select service hotels) delights the self sufficient traveler with what is needed for greater comfort and productivity. Great Hotels. Great Rates. All at the honest value our guests deserve. Our guests start their day feeling energized and finish up relaxed, maybe even with one of our Best Brews (local craft beer). Its the little indulgences that make their time away from home special. Aloft (select service hotels) first opened in 2008. It will already be opening its 50th property in 2011. Aloft provides new heights: an oasis where you least expect it, a spirited neighborhood outpost, a haven at the side of the road. Bringing a cozy harmony of modern elements to the classic on the road tradition, Aloft offers a sassy, refreshing, ultra effortless alternative for both the business and leisure traveler. Fresh, fun, and fulfilling, Aloft is an experience to be discovered and rediscovered, destination after destination, as you ease on down the road. Style at a Steal. Element(SM) (extended stay hotels), a brand introduced in 2006 with the first hotel opened in 2008, provides a modern, upscale and intuitively designed hotel experience that allows guests to live well and feel in control. Inspired by Westin, Element hotels promote balance through a thoughtful, upscale environment. Decidedly modern with an emphasis on nature, Element is intuitively constructed with an efficient use of space that encourages guests to stay connected, feel alive, and thrive while they are away. Primarily all Element hotels are LEED certified, depicting the importance of the environment in todays world. Space to live your life. Through our brands, we are well represented in most major markets around the world. Our operations are reported in two business segments, hotels and vacation ownership and residential operations. Our revenue and earnings are derived primarily from hotel operations, which include management and other fees earned from hotels we manage pursuant to management contracts, the receipt of franchise and other fees and the operation of our owned hotels. Our hotel business emphasizes the global operation of hotels and resorts primarily in the luxury and upscale segment of the lodging industry. We seek to acquire interests in, or management or franchise rights with respect to properties in this segment. At December 31, 2010, our hotel portfolio included owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels totaling 1,027 hotels with approximately 302,000 rooms in approximately 100 countries, and is comprised of 62 hotels that we own or lease or in which we have a majority equity interest, 463 hotels managed by 2 Table of Contents us on behalf of third party owners (including entities in which we have a minority equity interest) and 502 hotels for which we receive franchise fees. Our revenues and earnings are also derived from the development, ownership and operation of vacation ownership resorts, marketing and selling vacation ownership interests (VOIs) in the resorts and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests. Generally these resorts are marketed under the brand names described above. Additionally, our revenue and earnings are derived from the development, marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects owned by us as well as fees earned from the marketing and selling of residential units at mixed use hotel projects developed by third party owners of hotels operated under our brands. At December 31, 2010, we had 23 owned vacation ownership resorts and residential properties (including 14 stand alone, eight mixed use and one unconsolidated joint venture) in the United States, Mexico and the Bahamas. Due to the global economic crisis and its impact on the long term growth outlook for the timeshare industry, in 2009 we evaluated all of our existing vacation ownership projects, as well as land held for future vacation ownership projects. We have thereby decided that no new vacation ownership projects are being initiated and we have decided not to develop certain vacation ownership sites and future phases of certain existing projects. Our operations are in geographically diverse locations around the world. The following tables reflect our hotel and vacation ownership and residential properties by type of revenue source and geographical presence by major geographic area as of December 31, 2010: Number of Properties Rooms Managed and unconsolidated joint venture hotels 463 159,200 Franchised hotels 502 121,400 Owned hotels(a) 62 21,100 Vacation ownership resorts and stand alone properties 14 7,000 Total properties 1,041 308,700 (a) Includes wholly owned, majority owned and leased hotels. Number of Properties Rooms North America (and Caribbean) 551 175,800 Europe, Africa and the Middle East 247 61,300 Asia Pacific 181 58,500 Latin America 62 13,100 Total properties 1,041 308,700 We have implemented a strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate and increasing our focus on the management and franchise business. In furtherance of this strategy, since 2006, we have sold 62 hotels for approximately $5.3 billion. As a result, our primary business objective is to maximize earnings and cash flow by increasing the number of our hotel management contracts and franchise agreements; selling VOIs; and investing in real estate assets where there is a strategic rationale for doing so, which may include selectively acquiring interests in additional assets and disposing of non core hotels (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate) and trophy assets that may be sold at significant premiums. We plan to meet these objectives by leveraging our global assets, broad customer base and other resources and by taking advantage of our scale to reduce costs. The implementation of our strategy and financial planning is impacted by the uncertainty relating to geopolitical and economic environments around the world and its consequent impact on travel. The Corporation was incorporated in 1980 under the laws of Maryland. Sheraton Hotels Resorts and Westin Hotels Resorts, Starwoods largest brands, have been serving guests for more than 60 years. Starwood Vacation Ownership (and its predecessor, Vistana, Inc.) has been selling VOIs for more than 20 years. 3 Table of Contents Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, New York 10604, and our telephone number is (914) 640 8100. For discussion of our revenues, profits, assets and geographical segments, see the notes to financial statements of this Annual Report. For additional information concerning our business, see Item 2 Properties, of this Annual Report. Competition The hotel and timeshare industry is highly competitive. Competition is generally based on quality and consistency of room, restaurant and meeting facilities and services, attractiveness of locations, availability of a global distribution system, price, the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points and other factors. Management believes that we compete favorably in these areas. Our properties compete with other hotels and resorts in their geographic markets, including facilities owned by local interests and facilities owned by national and international chains. Our principal competitors include other hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands, and ownership companies (including hotel REITs). We encounter strong competition as a hotel, residential, resort and vacation ownership operator. While some of our competitors are private management firms, several are large national and international chains that own and operate their own hotels, as well as manage hotels for third party owners and sell VOIs, under a variety of brands that compete directly with our brands. Environmental Matters We are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations (Environmental Laws). Under such laws, we could be held liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under, or in our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owners ability to sell or rent such real property or to borrow using such real property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such wastes at the treatment, storage or disposal facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. We use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under applicable Environmental Laws, and we from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses of certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Other Environmental Laws govern occupational exposure to asbestos containing materials (ACMs) and require abatement or removal of certain ACMs (limited quantities of which are present in various building materials such as spray on insulation, floor coverings, ceiling coverings, tiles, decorative treatments and piping located at certain of our hotels) in the event of damage or demolition, or certain renovations or remodeling. Environmental Laws also regulate polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), which may be present in electrical equipment. A number of our hotels have underground storage tanks (USTs) and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs); the operation and subsequent removal or upgrading of certain USTs and the use of equipment containing CFCs also are regulated by Environmental Laws. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could be held liable for costs of remedial or other action with respect to PCBs, USTs or CFCs. Congress and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our hotels and or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. The cost impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. Environmental Laws are not the only source of environmental liability. Under common law, owners and operators of real property may face liability for personal injury or property damage because of various 4 Table of Contents environmental conditions such as alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic substances (including, but not limited to, ACMs, PCBs and CFCs), poor indoor air quality, radon or poor drinking water quality. Although we have incurred and expect to incur remediation and various environmental related costs during the ordinary course of operations, management does not anticipate that such costs will have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Seasonality and Diversification The hotel industry is seasonal in nature; however, the periods during which our properties experience higher revenue activities vary from property to property and depend principally upon location. Generally, our revenues and operating income have been lower in the first quarter than in the second, third or fourth quarters. Comparability of Owned Hotel Results We continually update and renovate our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. While undergoing renovation, these hotels are generally not operating at full capacity and, as such, these renovations can negatively impact our owned hotel revenues and operating income. Other events, such as the occurrence of natural disasters may cause a full or partial closure or sale of a hotel, and such events can negatively impact our revenues and operating income. Finally, as we pursue our strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate assets, the sale of such assets can significantly reduce our revenues and operating income. Employees At December 31, 2010, approximately 145,000 people were employed at our corporate offices, owned and managed hotels and vacation ownership resorts, of which approximately 26% were employed in the United States. At December 31, 2010, approximately 34% of the U.S. based employees were covered by various collective bargaining agreements providing, generally, for basic pay rates, working hours, other conditions of employment and orderly settlement of labor disputes. Generally, labor relations have been maintained in a normal and satisfactory manner, and management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory. Where You Can Find More Information We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available on our website at http://www.starwoodhotels.com/ corporate/investor relations.html as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at its public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, in Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC 0330 for further information. Our filings with the SEC are also available at the New York Stock Exchange. For more information on obtaining copies of our public filings at the New York Stock Exchange, you should call (212) 656 5060. You may also obtain a copy of our filings free of charge by calling Investor Relations at (914) 640 8165. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Hotel, Resort, Vacation Ownership and Residential Operations We Are Subject to All the Operating Risks Common to the Hotel and Vacation Ownership and Residential Industries. Operating risks common to the hotel and vacation ownership and residential industries include: changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of downturns in the US and global economies; impact of war and terrorist activity (including threatened terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions; 5 Table of Contents travelers fears of exposures to contagious diseases; decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of general economic conditions; decreases in demand or increases in supply for vacation ownership interests; the impact of internet intermediaries on pricing and our increasing reliance on technology; cyclical over building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; changes in travel patterns; changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), food costs, workers compensation and health care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare, privacy, licensing, labor and employment, and regulations under the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; disputes with owners of properties, including condominium hotels, franchisees and homeowner associations which may result in litigation; the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and franchisees to fund construction, renovations and investments; foreign exchange fluctuations; the financial condition of third party owners, project developers and franchisees, which may impact our ability to recover indemnity payments that may be owed to us and their ability to fund amounts required under development, management and franchise agreements and in most cases our recourse is limited to the equity value said party has in the property; the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel; and regulation or taxation of carbon dioxide emissions by airlines and other forms of transportation. We are also impacted by our relationships with owners and franchisees. Our hotel management contracts are typically long term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace us in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of the hotel owner or franchisee, the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. Additionally, our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management, franchise or representation agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. We utilize our brands in connection with the residential portions of certain properties that we develop and license our brands to third parties to use in a similar manner for a fee. Residential properties using our brands could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates and the availability of mortgage financing generally, market absorption or oversupply in a particular market. As a result, we and our third party licensees may not be able to sell these residences for a profit or at the prices that we or they have anticipated. The Recent Recession in the Lodging Industry and the Global Economy Generally Will Continue to Impact Our Financial Results and Growth. The recent economic recession has had a negative impact on the hotel and vacation ownership and residential industries. Substantial increases in air and ground travel costs and decreases in airline capacity have reduced demand for our hotel rooms and interval and fractional timeshare products. Accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic recession and both our future financial results and growth could be further harmed if recovery from the economic recession slows or the economic 6 Table of Contents recession becomes worse. In certain cases, we have entered into third party hotel management contracts which contain performance guarantees specifying that certain operating metrics will be achieved. As a result of the impact of the economic downturn on the lodging industry, we may not meet the requisite performance levels, and we may be forced to loan or contribute monies to fund the shortfall of performance levels or terminate the management contract. For a more detailed description of our performance guarantees, see Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. Moreover, many businesses, particularly financial institutions, face restrictions on the ability to travel and hold conferences or events at resorts and luxury hotels. The negative publicity associated with such companies holding large events has also resulted in reduced bookings. New or revised regulations on businesses participating in government financial assistance programs, as well as the negative publicity associated with conferences and corporate events, could impact our financial results. Our Revenues, Profits, or Market Share Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable to Compete Effectively. The hotel, vacation ownership and residential industries are highly competitive. Our properties compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties, and, with respect to our vacation ownership resorts and residential projects, with owners reselling their VOIs, including fractional ownership, or apartments. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and they may improve their facilities, reduce their prices or expand or improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. We compete with other hotel companies for management and franchise agreements. The terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. In connection with entering into management or franchise agreements, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties. Our Businesses Are Capital Intensive. For our owned, managed and franchised properties to remain attractive and competitive, the property owners and we have to spend money periodically to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for cash. Third party property owners may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our management or franchise agreements. To the extent that property owners and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Failure to make the investments necessary to maintain or improve such properties could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. Recent events, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively impacted the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. Any Failure to Protect our Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on the Value of Our Brand Names and Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe our trademarks are an important component of our business. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. 7 Table of Contents Our Dependence on Hotel and Resort Development Exposes Us to Timing, Budgeting and Other Risks. We intend to develop hotel and resort properties and residential components of hotel properties, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. In addition, the owners and developers of new build properties that we have entered into management or franchise agreements with are subject to these same risks which may impact the amount and timing of fees we had expected to collect from those properties. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; so called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; ability to raise capital; and governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. We cannot assure you that any development project, including sites held for development of vacation ownership resorts, will in fact be developed, and, if developed, the time period or the budget of such development may be greater than initially contemplated and the actual number of units or rooms constructed may be less than initially contemplated. International Operations Are Subject to Unique Political and Monetary Risks. We have significant international operations which as of December 31, 2010 included 247 owned, managed or franchised properties in Europe, Africa and the Middle East (including 16 properties with majority ownership); 62 owned, managed or franchised properties in Latin America (including nine properties with majority ownership); and 181 owned, managed or franchised properties in the Asia Pacific region (including four properties with majority ownership). International operations generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. These risks include the risk of war, terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization as well as the impact in cases in which there are inconsistencies between U.S. law and the laws of an international jurisdiction. In addition, some international jurisdictions restrict the repatriation of non U.S. earnings. Various other international jurisdictions have laws limiting the ability of non U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Our Current Growth Strategy is Heavily Dependent on Growth in International Markets. As of December 31, 2010, 84% of our pipeline represented international growth. Further 60% of our pipeline represents new properties in Asia Pacific with 45% of our pipeline representing new growth in China alone. We must rely on third parties to build and complete these projects as planned and cannot ensure that all such hotels will be timely constructed. If our third party property owners fail to invest in these projects, or fail to invest at estimated levels, the projects may not be realized or may not be as successful as anticipated. Many countries in the Asia Pacific region, including China, have construction and operational logistics different than the U.S., including but not limited to labor, transportation, real estate, and local reporting or legal requirements. Our dependence on international markets for growth is also limited by the availability of new markets, and we face established competitors that are similarly looking to grow in new markets. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Third Party Internet Reservation Channels May Negatively Impact Our Bookings. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through third party internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com, Orbitz.com and Priceline.com. As the percentage of internet bookings increases, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms by increasing the 8 Table of Contents importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as three star downtown hotel) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels and our websites, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. A Failure to Keep Pace with Developments in Technology Could Impair Our Operations or Competitive Position. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty program, distribution and guest amenities. These technologies can be expected to require refinements, including to comply with the legal requirements such as privacy regulations and requirements established by third parties such as the payment card industry, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. Further, the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Significant Owners of Our Properties May Concentrate Risks. There is a concentration of ownership of hotels operated under our brands by any single owner. Following the acquisition of the Le Mridien brand business and a large disposition transaction to one ownership group in 2006, single ownership groups own significant numbers of hotels operated by us. While the risks associated with such ownership are no different than exist generally (i.e., the financial position of the owner, the overall state of the relationship with the owner and their participation in optional programs and the impact on cost efficiencies if they choose not to participate), they are more concentrated. Our Real Estate Investments Subject Us to Numerous Risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own and lease hotels and resorts. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and or time consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. We May Be Subject to Environmental Liabilities. Our properties and operations are subject to a number of Environmental Laws. Under such laws, we could be held liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under, or in our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owners ability to sell or rent such real property or to borrow using such real property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such wastes at the treatment, storage or disposal facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. We use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under applicable Environmental Laws, and we from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses at certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Other Environmental Laws govern 9 Table of Contents occupational exposure to ACMs and require abatement or removal of certain ACMs (limited quantities of which are present in various building materials such as spray on insulation, floor coverings, ceiling coverings, tiles, decorative treatments and piping located at certain of our hotels) in the event of damage or demolition, or certain renovations or remodeling. Environmental Laws also regulate PCBs, which may be present in electrical equipment. A number of our hotels have USTs and equipment containing CFCs; the operation and subsequent removal or upgrading of certain USTs and the use of equipment containing CFCs also are regulated by Environmental Laws. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could be held liable for costs of remedial or other action with respect to PCBs, USTs or CFCs. Congress and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our hotels and or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. The cost impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. Risks Relating to Operations in Syria During fiscal 2010, Starwood subsidiaries generated approximately $2 million of revenue from management and other fees from hotels located in Syria, a country that the United States has identified as a state sponsor of terrorism. This amount constitutes significantly less than 1% of our worldwide annual revenues. The United States does not prohibit U.S. investments in, or the exportation of services to, Syria, and our activities in that country are in full compliance with U.S. and local law. However, the United States has imposed limited sanctions as a result of Syrias support for terrorist groups and its interference with Lebanons sovereignty, including a prohibition on the exportation of U.S. origin goods to Syria and the operation of government owned Syrian air carriers in the United States except in limited circumstances. The United States may impose further sanctions against Syria at any time for foreign policy reasons. If so, our activities in Syria may be adversely affected, depending on the nature of any further sanctions that might be imposed. In addition, our activities in Syria may reduce demand for our stock among certain investors. Risks Relating to Debt Financing Our Debt Service Obligations May Adversely Affect our Cash Flow. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to: (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, (ii) restrictive covenants, including covenants relating to certain financial ratios, and (iii) interest rate risk. Although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance our existing indebtedness and any other indebtedness when it matures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the terms of such refinancing will be favorable. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if necessary, may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us and (ii) a substantial decrease in operating cash flow, EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreements) or a substantial increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and restrictive covenants and force us to sell assets and or modify our operations. We Have Little Control Over the Availability of Funds Needed to Fund New Investments and Maintain Existing Hotels. In order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must have access to capital. The availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we have little control. Current and prospective hotel owners may find hotel financing expensive and difficult to obtain. Delays, increased costs and other impediments to restructuring such projects may affect our ability to realize fees, recover loans and guarantee advances, or realize equity investments from such projects. Our ability to recover loans and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to raise new capital. In addition, downgrades of our public debt ratings by rating agencies could increase our cost of capital. A breach of a covenant could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. For a more detailed description of the covenants imposed by our debt obligations, see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of 10 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Used for Financing Activities in this Annual Report. Volatility in the Credit Markets Will Continue to Adversely Impact Our Ability to Sell the Loans That Our Vacation Ownership Business Generates. Our vacation ownership business provides financing to purchasers of our vacation ownership units, and we attempt to sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. Volatility in the credit markets may impact the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we are able to sell. Although we expect to realize the economic value of our vacation ownership note portfolio even if future note sales are temporarily or indefinitely delayed, such delays may result in either increased borrowings to provide capital to replace anticipated proceeds from such sales or reduced spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets. Risks Relating to So Called Acts of God, Terrorist Activity and War Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by so called acts of God, such as natural disasters, in locations where we own and or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife and geopolitical uncertainty have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. Risks Related to Pandemic Diseases Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the past outbreaks of SARS and avian flu had a severe impact on the travel industry, and the recent outbreak of swine flu in Mexico had a similar impact. A prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, swine flu or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our hotel and vacation ownership businesses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Insurance Policies May Not Cover All Potential Losses We carry insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to our owned and leased properties and we make available insurance programs for owners of properties we manage. These policies offer coverage terms and conditions that we believe are usual and customary for our industry. Generally, our all risk property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is a limit as well as various sub limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we will receive in excess of applicable deductibles. In addition, there may be overall limits under the policies. Sub limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. Our property policies also provide that for the coverage of critical earthquake (California and Mexico), hurricane and flood, all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the annual aggregate limits and sub limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and any such claims will also be combined with the claims of owners of managed hotels that participate in our insurance program for the same purpose. Therefore, if insurable events occur that affect more than one of our owned hotels and or managed hotels owned by third parties that participate in our insurance program, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the per occurrence limit, annual aggregate limit or sub limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and if the limits or sub limits are exceeded each affected hotel will only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. In addition, under those circumstances, claims by third party owners will reduce the coverage available for our owned and leased properties. In addition, there are also other risks including but not limited to war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism, political risks, some environmental hazards and or acts of God that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. 11 Table of Contents We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel or resort, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel or resort. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Our Acquisitions/Dispositions and Investments in New Brands May Ultimately Not Prove Successful and We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits We will consider corporate as well as property acquisitions and investments that complement our business. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable financial metrics than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition or investment candidates or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments, and from time to time, may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that any anticipated benefits will actually be received. We may develop and launch additional brands in the future. There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of these brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that the cost incurred in developing the brands will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands will be realized. Investing Through Partnerships or Joint Ventures Decreases Our Ability to Manage Risk In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partners share of joint venture liabilities. Our Vacation Ownership Business is Subject to Extensive Regulation and Risk of Default We market and sell VOIs, which typically entitle the buyer to ownership of a fully furnished resort unit for a one week period on either an annual or an alternate year basis. We also acquire, develop and operate vacation ownership resorts, and provide financing to purchasers of VOIs. These activities are all subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which vacation ownership resorts are located and in which VOIs are marketed and sold including regulation of our telemarketing activities under state and federal Do Not Call laws. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser the right to rescind the purchase contract at any time within a statutory rescission period. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which vacation ownership marketing, sales and operations are currently subject, changes in these requirements, or a determination by a regulatory authority that we were not in compliance, could adversely affect us. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of our VOIs. 12 Table of Contents We bear the risk of defaults under purchaser mortgages on VOIs. If a VOI purchaser defaults on the mortgage during the early part of the loan amortization period, we will not have recovered the marketing, selling (other than commissions in certain events), and general and administrative costs associated with such VOI, and such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed VOI. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the sales price will be fully or partially recovered from a defaulting purchaser or, in the event of such defaults, that our allowance for losses will be adequate. Risks Related to Privacy Initiatives We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Risks Related to Our Ability to Manage Growth Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. In the past several years, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management, including executive officers (see Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report). There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. Over the last few years we have been pursuing a strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate and increasing our focus on the management and franchise business. As a result, we are planning on substantially increasing the number of hotels we open every year and increasing the overall number of hotels in our system. This increase will require us to recruit and train a substantial number of new associates to work at these hotels as well as increasing our capabilities to enable hotels to open on time and successfully. There can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful. Tax Risks Evolving Government Regulation Could Impose Taxes or Other Burdens on Our Business. We rely upon generally available interpretations of tax laws and other types of laws and regulations in the countries and locales in which we operate. We cannot be sure that these interpretations are accurate or that the responsible taxing or other governmental authority is in agreement with our views. The imposition of additional taxes or requirements to change the way we conduct our business could cause us to have to pay taxes that we currently do not collect or pay or increase the costs of our services or increase our costs of operations. Our current business practice with our internet reservation channels is that the intermediary collects hotel occupancy tax from its customer based on the price that the intermediary paid us for the hotel room. We then remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. Several jurisdictions have stated that they may take the position that the tax is also applicable to the intermediaries gross profit on these hotel transactions. If jurisdictions take this position, they should seek the additional tax payments from the intermediary; however, it is possible that they may seek to collect the additional tax payment from us and we would not be able to collect these taxes from the customers. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the hotel occupancy tax applies to the gross revenue on these transactions, we believe that any additional tax would be the responsibility of the intermediary. However, it is possible that we might have additional tax exposure. In such event, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board of Directors May Issue Preferred Stock and Establish the Preferences and Rights of Such Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 1,200,000,000, consisting of one billion shares of common stock and 200 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of shareholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares having special preferences or rights could delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our shareholders. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of preferred shares without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our shares. Our Board of Directors May Implement Anti Takeover Devices and Our Charter and Bylaws Contain Provisions which May Prevent Takeovers. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses that are not currently in place, such as a classified board. In addition, our charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of the Corporation Shares, which provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of our shareholders holding two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our Bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our Bylaws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. We are one of the largest hotel and leisure companies in the world, with operations in approximately 100 countries. We consider our hotels and resorts, including vacation ownership resorts (together Resorts), generally to be premier establishments with respect to desirability of location, size, facilities, physical condition, quality and variety of services offered in the markets in which they are located. Although obsolescence arising from age, condition of facilities, and style can adversely affect our Resorts, Starwood and third party owners of managed and franchised Resorts expend substantial funds to renovate and maintain their facilities in order to remain competitive. For further information see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Annual Report. Our hotel business included 1,027 owned, managed or franchised hotels with approximately 302,000 rooms and our owned vacation ownership and residential business included 14 stand alone vacation ownership resorts and residential properties at December 31, 2010, predominantly under seven brands. All brands (other than the Four Points by Sheraton and the Aloft and Element brands) represent full service properties that range in amenities from luxury hotels and resorts to more moderately priced hotels. Our Four Points by Sheraton, Aloft and Element brands are select service properties that cater to more value oriented consumers. The following table reflects our hotel and vacation ownership properties, by brand, as of December 31, 2010: Hotels, VOI and Residential(a) Properties Rooms St. Regis and Luxury Collection 97 19,400 W 38 11,200 Westin 181 71,200 Le Mridien 100 26,700 Sheraton 401 141,500 Four Points 158 27,400 Aloft 46 6,800 Independent / Other 20 4,500 Total 1,041 308,700 14 Table of Contents (a) Includes vacation ownership properties of which 14 are stand alone, eight are mixed use and one is an unconsolidated joint venture totaling rooms of 7,000. Hotel Business Managed and Franchised Hotels. Hotel and resort properties in the United States are often owned by entities that do not manage hotels or own a brand name. Hotel owners typically enter into management contracts with hotel management companies to operate their hotels. When a management company does not offer a brand affiliation, the hotel owner often chooses to pay separate franchise fees to secure the benefits of brand marketing, centralized reservations and other centralized administrative functions, particularly in the sales and marketing area. Management believes that companies, such as Starwood, that offer both hotel management services and well established worldwide brand names appeal to hotel owners by providing the full range of management, marketing and reservation services. In 2010, we opened 70 managed and franchised hotels with approximately 15,000 rooms and 22 managed and franchised hotels with approximately 7,000 rooms left the system. Managed Hotels. We manage hotels worldwide, usually under a long term agreement with the hotel owner (including entities in which we have a minority equity interest). Our responsibilities under hotel management contracts typically include hiring, training and supervising the managers and employees that operate these facilities. For additional fees, we provide centralized reservation services and coordinate national advertising and certain marketing and promotional services. We prepare and implement annual budgets for the hotels we manage and are responsible for allocating property owner funds for periodic maintenance and repair of buildings and furnishings. In addition to our owned and leased hotels, at December 31, 2010, we managed 463 hotels with approximately 159,200 rooms worldwide. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we generated management fees by geographic area as follows: United States 33.1 % Asia Pacific 26.2 % Middle East and Africa 17.4 % Europe 15.6 % Americas (Latin America, Caribbean Canada) 7.7 % Total 100.0 % Management contracts typically provide for base fees tied to gross revenue and incentive fees tied to profits as well as fees for other services, including centralized reservations, sales and marketing, public relations and national and international media advertising. In our experience, owners seek hotel managers that can provide attractively priced base, incentive and marketing fees combined with demonstrated sales and marketing expertise and operations focused management designed to enhance profitability. Some of our management contracts permit the hotel owner to terminate the agreement when the hotel is sold or otherwise transferred to a third party, as well as if we fail to meet established performance criteria. In addition, many hotel owners seek equity, debt or other investments from us to help finance hotel renovations or conversions to a Starwood brand so as to align the interests of the owner and Starwood. Our ability or willingness to make such investments may determine, in part, whether we will be offered, will accept or will retain a particular management contract. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we opened 39 managed hotels with approximately 9,000 rooms, and 15 managed hotels with approximately 5,000 rooms left our system. In addition, during 2010, we signed management agreements for 61 hotels with approximately 15,000 rooms, a small portion of which opened in 2010 and the majority of which will open in the future. Brand Franchising and Licensing. We franchise our Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Luxury Collection, Le Mridien, Aloft and Element brand names and generally derive licensing and other fees from franchisees based on a fixed percentage of the franchised hotels room revenue, as well as fees for other services, including centralized reservations, sales and marketing, public relations and national and international media advertising. In addition, a franchisee may also purchase hotel supplies, including brand specific products, from certain Starwood approved vendors. We approve certain plans for, and the location of, franchised hotels and review 15 Table of Contents their design. At December 31, 2010, there were 502 franchised properties with approximately 121,400 rooms. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we generated franchise fees by geographic area as follows: United States 63.9 % Europe 12.2 % Americas (Latin America, Caribbean Canada) 13.4 % Asia Pacific 9.6 % Middle East and Africa 0.9 % Total 100.0 % In addition to the franchise contracts we retained in connection with the sale of hotels during the year ended December 31, 2010, we opened 31 franchised hotels with approximately 6,000 rooms, and seven franchised hotels with approximately 2,000 rooms left our system. In addition, during 2010 we signed franchise agreements for 35 hotels with approximately 7,000 rooms, a portion of which opened in 2010 and a portion of which will open in the future. Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels. Historically, we have derived the majority of our revenues and operating income from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels and a significant portion of these results are driven by these hotels in North America. However, beginning in 2006, we embarked upon a strategy of selling a significant number of hotels. Since the beginning of 2006, we have sold 62 wholly owned hotels which has substantially reduced our revenues and operating income from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. The majority of these hotels were sold subject to long term management or franchise contracts. To date, where we have sold hotels, we have not provided seller financing or other financial assistance to buyers. Total revenues generated from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels worldwide for the years ending December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $1.704 billion, $1.584 billion and $2.212 billion, respectively (total revenues from our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels in North America were $1.067 billion, $1.024 billion and $1.380 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively). The following represents our top five markets in the United States by metropolitan area as a percentage of our total owned, leased and consolidated joint venture revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 (with comparable data for 2009): Top Five Domestic Markets in the United States as a % of Total Owned Revenues for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 with Comparable Data for 2009(1) 2010 2009 Metropolitan Area Revenues Revenues New York, NY 12.7 % 14.2 % Hawaii 6.2 % 6.3 % Phoenix, AZ 5.0 % 5.1 % Boston, MA 4.4 % 4.4 % Chicago, IL 4.3 % 3.9 % 16 Table of Contents The following represents our top five international markets by country as a percentage of our total owned, leased and consolidated joint venture revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 (with comparable data for 2009): Top Five International Markets as a % of Total Owned Revenues for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 with Comparable Data for 2009(1) 2010 2009 Country Revenues Revenues Canada 10.8 % 9.3 % Italy 7.0 % 7.5 % Spain 5.5 % 2.8 % Mexico 4.1 % 4.7 % Australia 4.1 % 5.3 % (1) Includes the revenues of hotels sold for the period prior to their sale. Following the sale of a significant number of our hotels in the past three years, we currently own or lease 62 hotels as follows: Hotel Location Rooms U.S. Hotels: The St. Regis Hotel, New York New York, NY 229 St. Regis Hotel, San Francisco San Francisco, CA 260 The Phoenician Scottsdale, AZ 643 W New York Times Square New York, NY 509 W Chicago Lakeshore Chicago, IL 520 W Los Angeles Westwood Los Angeles, CA 258 W Chicago City Center Chicago, IL 368 W New Orleans New Orleans, LA 423 W New Orleans, French Quarter New Orleans, LA 87 W Atlanta Atlanta, GA 275 The Westin Maui Resort Spa Maui, HI 759 The Westin Peachtree Plaza, Atlanta Atlanta, GA 1,068 The Westin Gaslamp San Diego San Diego, CA 450 The Westin San Francisco Airport San Francisco, CA 397 The Westin St. John Resort Villas St. John, Virgin Islands 175 Sheraton Kauai Resort Kauai, HI 394 Sheraton Steamboat Springs Resort Steamboat Springs, CO 206 Sheraton Suites Philadelphia Airport Philadelphia, PA 251 Aloft Lexington Lexington, MA 136 Aloft Philadelphia Airport Philadelphia, PA 136 Element Lexington Lexington, MA 123 Four Points by Sheraton Philadelphia Airport Philadelphia, PA 177 Four Points by Sheraton Tucson University Plaza Tucson, AZ 150 The Boston Park Plaza Hotel Towers Boston, MA 941 The Manhattan at Times Square New York, NY 665 Tremont Hotel Chicago, IL 135 Clarion Hotel San Francisco, CA 251 17 Table of Contents Hotel Location Rooms Cove Haven Resort Scranton, PA 276 Pocono Palace Resort Scranton, PA 189 Paradise Stream Resort Scranton, PA 143 International Hotels: St. Regis Grand Hotel, Rome Rome, Italy 161 St. Regis Osaka Tokyo, Japan 160 Grand Hotel Florence, Italy 107 Hotel Gritti Palace Venice, Italy 91 Park Tower Buenos Aires, Argentina 180 Hotel Alfonso XIII Seville, Spain 147 Hotel Imperial Vienna, Austria 138 Hotel Bristol, Vienna Vienna, Austria 140 Hotel Goldener Hirsch Salzburg, Austria 69 Hotel Maria Cristina San Sebastian, Spain 136 W Barcelona Barcelona, Spain 473 The Westin Excelsior, Rome Rome, Italy 316 The Westin Resort Spa, Los Cabos Los Cabos, Mexico 243 The Westin Resort Spa, Puerto Vallarta Puerto Vallarta, Mexico 280 The Westin Excelsior, Florence Florence, Italy 171 The Westin Resort Spa Cancun Cancun, Mexico 379 The Westin Denarau Island Resort Nadi, Fiji 273 The Westin Dublin Hotel Dublin, Ireland 163 Sheraton Centre Toronto Hotel Toronto, Canada 1,377 Sheraton On The Park Sydney, Australia 557 Sheraton Rio Hotel Resort Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 559 Sheraton Diana Majestic Hotel Milan, Italy 106 Sheraton Ambassador Hotel Monterrey, Mexico 229 Sheraton Lima Hotel Convention Center Lima, Peru 431 Sheraton Santa Maria de El Paular Rascafria, Spain 44 Sheraton Fiji Resort Nadi, Fiji 264 Sheraton Buenos Aires Hotel Convention Center Buenos Aires, Argentina 739 Sheraton Maria Isabel Hotel Towers Mexico City, Mexico 755 Sheraton Gateway Hotel in Toronto International Airport Toronto, Canada 474 Le Centre Sheraton Montreal Hotel Montreal, Canada 825 Sheraton Paris Airport Hotel Conference Centre Paris, France 252 The Park Lane Hotel, London London, England 303 18 Table of Contents An indicator of the performance of our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels is revenue per available room (REVPAR)(1), as it measures the period over period growth in rooms revenue for comparable properties. This is particularly the case in the United States where there is no impact on this measure from foreign exchange rates. The following table summarizes REVPAR, average daily rates (ADR) and average occupancy rates on a year to year basis for our 54 owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels (excluding nine hotels sold or closed and eight hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2010 and 2009) (Same Store Owned Hotels) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Variance Worldwide (54 hotels with approximately 19,000 rooms) REVPAR $ 136.27 $ 122.57 11.2 % ADR $ 196.62 $ 191.60 2.6 % Occupancy 69.3 % 64.0 % 5.3 North America (28 hotels with approximately 12,000 rooms) REVPAR $ 141.02 $ 126.41 11.6 % ADR $ 192.97 $ 184.26 4.7 % Occupancy 73.1 % 68.6 % 4.5 International (26 hotels with approximately 7,000 rooms) REVPAR $ 129.05 $ 116.74 10.5 % ADR $ 202.99 $ 205.04 (1.0 )% Occupancy 63.6 % 56.9 % 6.7 (1) REVPAR is calculated by dividing room revenue, which is derived from rooms and suites rented or leased, by total room nights available for a given period. REVPAR may not be comparable to similarly titled measures such as revenues. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we invested approximately $184 million and $171 million, respectively, for capital expenditures at owned hotels. These capital expenditures include construction costs at W City Center in Chicago, IL, Westin Peachtree Plaza in Atlanta, GA, Westin Gaslamp in San Diego, CA, The Phoenician in Scottsdale, AZ, and the Manhattan Hotel at Times Square in New York, NY. The following table summarizes REVPAR, ADR and occupancy for our Same Store Systemwide Hotels on a year to year basis for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Same Store Systemwide Hotels represent results for the same store owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Variance Worldwide REVPAR $ 106.57 $ 97.45 9.4 % ADR $ 160.00 $ 158.51 0.9 % Occupancy 66.6 % 61.5 % 5.1 North America REVPAR $ 99.81 $ 92.17 8.3 % ADR $ 147.99 $ 147.29 0.5 % Occupancy 67.4 % 62.6 % 4.8 International REVPAR $ 115.90 $ 104.75 10.6 % ADR $ 177.08 $ 174.68 1.4 % Occupancy 65.5 % 60.0 % 5.5 19 Table of Contents Vacation Ownership and Residential Business We develop, own and operate vacation ownership resorts, market and sell the VOIs in the resorts and, in many cases, provide financing to customers who purchase such ownership interests. Owners of VOIs can trade their interval for intervals at other Starwood vacation ownership resorts, for intervals at certain vacation ownership resorts not otherwise sponsored by Starwood through an exchange company, or for hotel stays at Starwood properties. From time to time, we securitize or sell the receivables generated from our sale of VOIs. We have also entered into arrangements with several owners for mixed use hotel projects that will include a residential component. We have entered into licensing agreements for the use of certain of our brands to allow the owners to offer branded condominiums to prospective purchasers. In consideration, we typically receive a licensing fee equal to a percentage of the gross sales revenue of the units sold. The licensing arrangement generally terminates upon the earlier of sell out of the units or a specified length of time. At December 31, 2010, we had 23 residential and vacation ownership resorts and sites in our portfolio with 17 actively selling VOIs and residences including one unconsolidated joint venture. During 2010 and 2009 we invested approximately $151 million and $145 million, respectively, for vacation ownership capital expenditures, including VOI construction at the Westin Desert Willow Villas in Palm Desert, CA, the Westin Lagunamar Ocean Resort in Cancun, as well as construction costs at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Miami Beach, FL. Due to the global economic crisis and its impact on the long term outlook for the timeshare industry, during the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed a comprehensive review of our vacation ownership projects. No new projects are being initiated and we have decided not to develop three vacation ownership sites and future phases of certain existing projects. As a result, inventories, fixed assets and land values at certain projects were determined to be impaired and were written down to their fair value, resulting in a primarily non cash pre tax impairment charge in 2009 of $255 million. Additionally, in connection with this review of the business, we made a decision to reduce the pricing of certain inventory at existing projects, resulting in a pre tax charge of $17 million. As a result of these decisions and future plans for the vacation ownership business, we also recorded a $90 million non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill associated with the vacation ownership reporting unit. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Incorporated by reference to the description of legal proceedings in Note 26. Commitments and Contingencies, in the consolidated financial statements set forth in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those relating to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, investments, plant, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, frequent guest program liability, self insurance claims payable, restructuring costs, retirement benefits and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 23 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We believe the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are primarily derived from the following sources: (1) hotel and resort revenues at our owned, leased and consolidated joint venture properties; (2) vacation ownership and residential revenues; (3) management and franchise revenues; (4) revenues from managed and franchised properties; and (5) other revenues which are ancillary to our operations. Generally, revenues are recognized when the services have been rendered. The following is a description of the composition of our revenues: Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Ventures Represents revenue primarily derived from hotel operations, including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned, leased or consolidated joint venture hotels and resorts. Revenue is recognized when rooms are occupied and services have been rendered. These revenues are impacted by global economic conditions affecting the travel and hospitality industry as well as relative market share of the local competitive set of hotels. REVPAR is a leading indicator of revenue trends at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels as it measures the period over period growth in rooms revenue for comparable properties. Vacation Ownership and Residential We recognize revenue from VOI sales and financings and the sales of residential units which are typically a component of mixed use projects that include a hotel. Such revenues are impacted by the state of the global economies and, in particular, the U.S. economy, as well as interest rate and other economic conditions affecting the lending market. Revenue is generally recognized upon the buyer demonstrating a sufficient level of initial and continuing investment, the period of cancellation with refund has expired and receivables are deemed collectible. We determine the portion of revenues to recognize for sales accounted for under the percentage of completion method based on judgments and estimates including total project costs to complete. Additionally, we record reserves against these revenues based on expected default levels. Changes in costs could lead to adjustments to the percentage of completion status of a project, which may result in differences in the timing and amount of revenues recognized from the projects. We have also entered into licensing agreements with third party developers to offer consumers branded condominiums or residences. Our fees from these agreements are generally based on the gross sales revenue of units sold. Residential fee revenue is recorded in the period that a purchase and sales agreement exists, delivery of services and obligations has occurred, the fee to the owner is deemed fixed and determinable and collectability of the fees is reasonably assured. Management and Franchise Revenues Represents fees earned on hotels managed worldwide, usually under long term contracts, franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of our Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Le Mridien and Luxury Collection brand names, termination fees and the amortization of deferred gains related to sold properties for which we have significant continuing involvement. Management fees are comprised of a base fee, which is generally based on a percentage of gross revenues, and an incentive fee, which is generally based on the propertys profitability. For any time during the year, when the provisions of our management contracts allow receipt of incentive fees upon termination, incentive fees are recognized for the fees due and earned as if the contract was terminated at that date, exclusive of any termination fees due or payable. Therefore, during periods prior to year end, the incentive fees recorded may not be indicative of the eventual incentive fees that will be recognized at year end as conditions and incentive hurdle calculations may not be final. Franchise fees are generally based on a percentage of hotel room revenues. As with hotel revenues discussed above, these revenue sources are affected by conditions impacting the travel and hospitality industry as well as competition from other hotel management and franchise companies. Revenues from Managed and Franchised Properties These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel properties and franchisees. These costs relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. 24 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets. Goodwill and intangible assets arise in connection with acquisitions, including the acquisition of management contracts. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their respective useful lives. We review all goodwill and intangible assets for impairment by comparing their fair values to book values annually, or upon the occurrence of a trigger event. Impairment charges, if any, are recognized in operating results. Frequent Guest Program. SPG is our frequent guest incentive marketing program. SPG members earn points based on spending at our owned, managed and franchised hotels, as incentives to first time buyers of VOIs and residences, and through participation in affiliated partners programs such as co branded credit cards. Points can be redeemed at substantially all of our owned, managed and franchised hotels as well as through other redemption opportunities with third parties, such as conversion to airline miles. We charge our owned, managed and franchised hotels the cost of operating the SPG program, including the estimated cost of our future redemption obligation, based on a percentage of our SPG members qualified expenditures. The Companys management and franchise agreements require that we be reimbursed for the costs of operating the SPG program, including marketing, promotions and communications and performing member services for the SPG members. As points are earned, the Company increases the SPG point liability for the amount of cash it receives from its managed and franchised hotels related to the future redemption obligation. For its owned hotels we record an expense for the amount of our future redemption obligation with the offset to the SPG point liability. When points are redeemed by the SPG members, the hotels recognize revenue and the SPG point liability is reduced. We, through the services of third party actuarial analysts, determine the value of the future redemption obligation based on statistical formulas which project the timing of future point redemptions based on historical experience, including an estimate of the breakage for points that will never be redeemed, and an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed as well as the cost of reimbursing hotels and other third parties in respect of other redemption opportunities for point redemptions. We consolidate the assets and liabilities of the SPG program including the liability associated with the future redemption obligation which is included in other long term liabilities and accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The total actuarially determined liability (see Note 18), as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 is $753 million and $689 million, respectively, of which $225 million and $244 million, respectively, is included in accrued expenses. Long Lived Assets. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets for impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows of the assets to the net book value of the assets if certain trigger events occur. If the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is charged to current earnings. Fair value is based upon discounted cash flows of the assets at a rate deemed reasonable for the type of asset and prevailing market conditions, sales of similar assets, appraisals and, if appropriate, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets based on our plans, at the time, for such assets and such qualitative factors as future development in the surrounding area, status of expected local competition and projected incremental income from renovations. Changes to our plans, including a decision to dispose of or change the intended use of an asset, can have a material impact on the carrying value of the asset. Loan Loss Reserves. For the vacation ownership and residential segment, we record an estimate of expected uncollectibility on our VOI notes receivable as a reduction of revenue at the time we recognize a timeshare sale. We hold large amounts of homogeneous VOI notes receivable and therefore assess uncollectibility based on pools of receivables. In estimating loan loss reserves, we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis, which tracks defaults for each years mortgage originations over the life of the respective notes and projects an estimated default rate. As of December 31, 2010, the average estimated default rate for our pools of receivables was 10%. The primary credit quality indicator used by us to calculate the loan loss reserve for the vacation ownership notes is the origination of the notes by brand (Sheraton, Westin, and Other) as we believe there is a relationship between the default behavior of borrowers and the brand associated with the vacation ownership property they have acquired. In addition to quantitatively calculating the loan loss reserve based on its static pool analysis, we 25 Table of Contents supplement the process by evaluating certain qualitative data, including the aging of the respective receivables, current default trends by brand and origination year, and the Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores of the buyers. Given the significance of our respective pools of VOI notes receivable, a change in the projected default rate can have a significant impact to its loan loss reserve requirements, with a 0.1% change estimated to have an impact of approximately $3 million. We consider a VOI note receivable delinquent when it is more than 30 days outstanding. All delinquent loans are placed on nonaccrual status and we do not resume interest accrual until payment is made. Upon reaching 120 days outstanding, the loan is considered to be in default and we commence the repossession process. Uncollectible VOI notes receivable are charged off when title to the unit is returned to us. We generally do not modify vacation ownership notes that become delinquent or upon default. For the hotel segment, we measure the impairment of a loan based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, or the estimated fair value of the collateral. For impaired loans, we establish a specific impairment reserve for the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated fair value of the collateral. We apply the loan impairment policy individually to all loans in the portfolio and do not aggregate loans for the purpose of applying such policy. For loans that we have determined to be impaired, we recognize interest income on a cash basis. Assets Held for Sale. We consider properties to be assets held for sale when management approves and commits to a formal plan to actively market a property or group of properties for sale and a signed sales contract and significant non refundable deposit or contract break up fee exist. Upon designation as an asset held for sale, we record the carrying value of each property or group of properties at the lower of its carrying value which includes allocable segment goodwill or its estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell, and we stop recording depreciation expense. Any gain realized in connection with the sale of a property for which we have significant continuing involvement (such as through a long term management agreement) is deferred and recognized over the initial term of the related agreement. The operations of the properties held for sale prior to the sale date are recorded in discontinued operations unless we will have continuing involvement (such as through a management or franchise agreement) after the sale. Legal Contingencies. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Income Taxes. We provide for income taxes in accordance with principles contained in ASC 740, Income Taxes. Under these principles, we recognize the amount of income tax payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We also measure and recognize the amount of tax benefit that should be recorded for financial statement purposes for uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. With respect to uncertain tax positions, we evaluate the recognized tax benefits for derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, interim period accounting and disclosure requirements. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Business conditions in the global lodging industry were extremely difficult beginning in the middle of 2008 through late 2009, but have improved during 2010. These improvements have resulted from better than expected occupancy primarily related to our three main classes of customers: business, leisure and group travelers, and the stabilization of room rates. As corporate profits have continued to rise, our business from the business travelers, which accounts for the majority of our revenues, is leading the recovery. In addition, the supply side growth has been lower than recent years which has led us to achieve upper single digit to low double digit REVPAR growth in many of our leading markets. We are the largest operator of upper upscale and luxury hotels in the world and we are seeing luxury travel leading the increases in occupancy. Despite the improvement in revenues, we continue to enforce previously instituted rigorous policies to control costs. As discussed in Note 2 of the financial statements, following the adoption of ASU Nos. 2009 16 and 2009 17 on January 1, 2010, our statement of income beginning with the year ended December 31, 2010 no longer reflects securitization income, but instead reports interest income, net charge offs and certain other income associated with all securitized loan receivables, and interest expense associated with debt issued from the trusts to third party investors in the same line items in our statement of income as debt. Additionally, we will no longer record initial gains or losses on new securitization activity since securitized vacation ownership notes receivable no longer receive sale accounting treatment. Finally, we no longer recognize gains or losses on the revaluation of the interest only strip receivable as that asset is not recognized in a transaction accounted for as a secured borrowing. Our statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 have not been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the adoption of ASU Nos. 2009 16 and 2009 17. Therefore, current period results will not be comparable to prior period amounts, particularly with regards to: Vacation ownership and residential sales and services Interest expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 Continuing Operations Increase / Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels $ 1,704 $ 1,584 $ 120 7.6 % Management Fees, Franchise Fees and Other Income 712 658 54 8.2 % Vacation Ownership and Residential 538 523 15 2.9 % Other Revenues from Managed and Franchise Properties 2,117 1,931 186 9.6 % Total Revenues $ 5,071 $ 4,696 $ 375 8.0 % The increase in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was primarily due to improved REVPAR (as discussed below) at our existing owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, offset in part by lost revenues from eight wholly owned hotels sold or closed in 2010 and 2009. These sold or closed hotels had revenues of $18 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $98 million in the corresponding period of 2009. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (54 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, excluding the eight hotels sold or closed and eight additional hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2010 and 2009) increased 8.2%, or $107 million, to $1.421 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to $1.314 billion in the same period of 2009 due primarily to an increase in REVPAR. 27 Table of Contents REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels increased 11.2% to $136.27 for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the corresponding 2009 period. The increase in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels resulted from a 2.6% increase in ADR to $196.62 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $191.60 for the corresponding 2009 period and an increase in occupancy rates to 69.3% in the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to 64.0% in the same period in 2009. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 11.6% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the same period of 2009. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at our owned hotels in New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, Toronto, Canada and New Orleans, Louisiana. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels increased by 10.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the same period of 2009. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally increased 11.6% excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation. The increase in management fees, franchise fees and other income was primarily a result of a $59 million or 9.4% increase in management and franchise revenue to $689 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $630 million in the corresponding period in 2009. Management fees increased $53 million or 14.9% and franchise fees increased $23 million or 16.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. These increases were due to growth in REVPAR at existing hotels as well as the net addition of 27 managed and 65 franchised hotels to our system since the beginning of 2009. Total vacation ownership and residential sales and services revenue increased 2.9% to $538 million compared to $523 million in 2009 primarily driven by the impact of ASU 2009 17. Originated contract sales of VOI inventory decreased 3.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the same period in 2009. This decline was primarily driven by lower tour flow which was down 6.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the same period in 2009. The decline in tour flow was a result of the economic climate and resulting closure of fractional sales centers in the latter part of 2009. Additionally, the average contract amount per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 6.0% to approximately $15,000, driven by price reductions and inventory mix. Residential revenue increased approximately $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to the recognition of $4 million of marketing and license fees associated with a new hotel and residential project in Guangzhou, China which opened in 2010. Other revenues from managed and franchised properties increased primarily due to an increase in payroll costs commensurate with increased occupancy at our existing managed hotels and payroll costs for the new hotels entering the system. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel and vacation ownership properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Selling, General, Administrative and Other $ 344 $ 314 $ 30 9.6 % The increase in selling, general, administrative and other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily a result of higher incentive based compensation in the current year when compared to the prior year. This increase was partially offset by the reimbursement of previously expensed legal costs in connection with the favorable settlement of a lawsuit and an $8 million reversal of a guarantee liability which was favorably settled during the period (see Note 26). Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Restructuring, Goodwill Impairment and Other Special Charges (Credits), Net $ (75 ) $ 379 $ 454 n/m During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received cash proceeds of $75 million in connection with the favorable settlement of a lawsuit. We recorded this settlement, net of the reimbursement of legal costs incurred in connection with the litigation, as a credit to restructuring, goodwill impairment, and other special (credits) charges. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, we recorded an $8 million credit related to the reversal of a reserve associated with an acquisition in 1998 as the liability is no longer deemed necessary. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we completed a comprehensive review of our vacation ownership business. We decided not to develop certain vacation ownership sites and future phases of certain existing projects. As a result of these decisions, we recorded a primarily non cash impairment charge of $255 million in the restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges (credits) line item. Additionally, we recorded a $90 million non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill in the vacation ownership reporting unit. Additionally, throughout 2009, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $34 million related to our ongoing initiative of rationalizing our cost structure. These charges related to severance charges and costs to close vacation ownership sales galleries. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Depreciation and Amortization $ 285 $ 309 $ (24 ) 7.8 % The decrease in depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010, when compared to the same period of 2009, was due to reduced depreciation expense from sold hotels offset by additional capital expenditures made in the last twelve months. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Operating Income $ 600 $ 26 $ 574 n/m The increase in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010, when compared to the same period of 2009, is primarily related to the restructuring, goodwill impairments and other special charges (credits) favorable benefit of $75 million in 2010 compared to a charge of $379 million in 2009 (see earlier discussion). Additionally, the increase in operating income was favorably impacted by improved operating results in primarily all of our revenue streams, as discussed earlier. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Equity Earnings (Losses) and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net $ 10 $ (4 ) $ 14 n/m The increase in equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2010, when compared to the same period of 2009, was primarily due to improved operating results at several properties owned by joint ventures in which we hold non controlling interests. The increase also relates to a charge of approximately $4 million, in 2009, related to an unfavorable mark to market adjustment on a US dollar denominated loan in an unconsolidated venture in Mexico. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Net Interest Expense $ 236 $ 227 $ 9 4.0 % The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to interest of $27 million on securitized debt related to the adoption of ASU No. 2009 17, partially offset by certain early debt extinguishment costs of $21 million that were incurred in 2009. Our weighted average interest rate was 6.86% at December 31, 2010 as compared to 6.73% at December 31, 2009. 29 Table of Contents Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net $ (39 ) $ (91 ) $ 52 n/m During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a net loss on dispositions of approximately $39 million, primarily related to a $53 million loss on the sale of one wholly owned hotel (see Note 5) as well as a $4 million impairment of fixed assets that are being retired in connection with a significant renovation of a wholly owned hotel, and a $2 million impairment on one hotel whose carrying value exceeded its fair value. These charges were partially offset by a gain of $14 million from insurance proceeds received for a claim at a wholly owned hotel that suffered damage from a storm in 2008, a $5 million gain as a result of an acquisition of a controlling interest in a joint venture in which we previously held a non controlling interest (see Note 4) and a $4 million gain from the sale of non hotel assets. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a net loss on dispositions of approximately $91 million, primarily related to $41 million of impairment charges on six hotels whose carrying values exceeded their fair values, a $22 million impairment of our retained interests in vacation ownership mortgage receivables, a $13 million impairment of an investment in a hotel management contract that has been cancelled, a $5 million impairment of certain technology related fixed assets and a $4 million loss on the sale of a wholly owned hotel. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2010 2009 Year Year Income Tax (Benefit) Expense $ 27 $ (293 ) $ 320 n/m The $320 million increase in income tax expense primarily relates to 2009 items that did not recur in 2010, including a $120 million deferred tax benefit for an Italian tax incentive program in which the tax basis of land and building for the hotels we own in Italy was stepped up to fair value in exchange for paying a current tax of $9 million, a $51 million tax benefit related to previously unrecognized foreign tax credits for prior tax years and a $10 million benefit to reverse the deferred interest accrual associated with the deferral of taxable income. The remaining increase is primarily due to higher pretax income in 2010, partially offset by a benefit of $42 million related to an IRS audit. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a gain of $134 million related to the final settlement with the IRS regarding the World Directories disposition and a gain of approximately $36 million related to the sale of one wholly owned hotel. The tax benefit was related to the realization of a high tax basis in this hotel that was generated through a previous transaction. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold our Bliss spa business and other non core assets for cash proceeds of $227 million. Revenues and expenses from the Bliss spa business, together with revenues and expenses from one hotel that was sold in 2010, were reported in discontinued operations resulting in a loss of $2 million, net of tax. In addition, the net gain on the assets sold in 2009 and the one hotel held for sale at December 31, 2009 has been recorded in discontinued operations resulting in income of $76 million, net of tax. 30 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008 Continuing Operations Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels $ 1,584 $ 2,212 $ (628 ) (28.4 )% Management Fees, Franchise Fees and Other Income 658 751 (93 ) (12.4 )% Vacation Ownership and Residential 523 749 (226 ) (30.2 )% Other Revenues from Managed and Franchise Properties 1,931 2,042 (111 ) (5.4 )% Total Revenues $ 4,696 $ 5,754 $ (1,058 ) (18.4 )% The decrease in revenues from owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels was primarily due to the economic crisis in the United States and internationally. The decrease was also due to lost revenues from 15 wholly owned hotels sold or closed in 2009 and 2008. These sold or closed hotels had revenues of $68 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $248 million in the corresponding period of 2008. Revenues at our Same Store Owned Hotels (53 hotels for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, excluding the 15 hotels sold or closed and 10 additional hotels undergoing significant repositionings or without comparable results in 2009 and 2008) decreased 24.0%, or $437 million, to $1.386 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to $1.823 billion in the same period of 2008 due primarily to a decrease in REVPAR. REVPAR at our Same Store Owned Hotels decreased 24.6% to $128.95 for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the corresponding 2008 period. The decrease in REVPAR at these Same Store Owned Hotels resulted from a 17.1% decrease in ADR to $199.22 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $240.23 for the corresponding 2008 period and a decrease in occupancy rates to 64.7% in the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to 71.2% in the same period in 2008. REVPAR at Same Store Owned Hotels in North America decreased 24.4% for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the same period of 2008. REVPAR declined in substantially all of our major domestic markets. REVPAR at our international Same Store Owned Hotels decreased by 25.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the same period of 2008. REVPAR declined in most of our major international markets. REVPAR for Same Store Owned Hotels internationally decreased 20.3% excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation. The decrease in management fees, franchise fees and other income was primarily a result of an $87 million decrease in management and franchise revenue to $630 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $717 million in the corresponding period in 2008. The decrease was due to the significant decline in base and incentive management fees as a result of the global economic crisis, partially offset by fees from the net addition of 40 managed and franchised hotels to our system and approximately $15 million in termination fees recognized in 2009 when compared to $4 million in 2008. The decrease in vacation ownership and residential sales and services was primarily due to lower originated contract sales of VOI inventory, which represents vacation ownership revenues before adjustments for percentage of completion accounting and other deferrals, partially offset by gains of $23 million relating to securitizations. Originated contract sales of VOI inventory decreased 39% for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the same period in 2008. This decline was primarily driven by lower tour flow which was down 19.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the same period in 2008. The decline in tour flow was a result of the economic climate and resulting closure of underperforming sales centers. Additionally, the average contract amount per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 21.4% to approximately $16,000, driven by a higher sales mix of lower priced inventory, including a higher percentage of lower priced biennial inventory. The decrease is also due to a $43 million decrease in residential revenue, as the 2008 period included license fees in connection with two St. Regis projects. 31 Table of Contents Other revenues from managed and franchised properties decreased primarily due to a decrease in costs, commensurate with the decline in revenues, at our managed and franchised hotels. These revenues represent reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed hotel and vacation ownership properties and franchisees and relate primarily to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer. Since the reimbursements are made based upon the costs incurred with no added margin, these revenues and corresponding expenses have no effect on our operating income and our net income. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Selling, General, Administrative and Other $ 314 $ 377 $ (63 ) (16.7 )% The decrease in selling, general, administrative and other expenses was primarily a result of our focus on reducing our cost structure in the current economic climate. Beginning in the middle of 2008, we began an activity value analysis project to review our cost structure across a majority of our corporate departments and divisional headquarters. (See Note 14 for a summary of charges associated with this initiative.) A majority of the cost containment initiatives were completed and implemented in late 2008 and early 2009 and are now being realized. Costs and expenses related to our former Bliss spa business were reclassified to discontinued operations for both periods presented as a result of its sale at the end of 2009. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Restructuring, Goodwill Impairment and Other Special Charges, Net $ 379 $ 141 $ 238 n/m During the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed a comprehensive review of our vacation ownership business. We decided not to develop certain vacation ownership sites and future phases of certain existing projects. As a result of these decisions, we recorded a primarily non cash impairment charge of $255 million in the restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges line item. Additionally, we recorded a $90 million non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill in the vacation ownership reporting unit. Additionally, throughout 2009, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $34 million related to our ongoing initiative of rationalizing our cost structure. These charges related to severance charges and costs to close vacation ownership sales galleries. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $141 million, including $62 million of severance and related charges associated with our ongoing initiative of rationalizing our cost structure in light of the current economic climate. We also recorded impairment charges of approximately $79 million primarily related to the decision not to develop two vacation ownership projects as a result of the economic climate and its impact on business conditions. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Depreciation and Amortization $ 309 $ 313 $ (4 ) (1.3 )% The decrease in depreciation expense was due to reduced depreciation expense from sold hotels offset by additional capital expenditures made in the last twelve months. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Operating Income $ 26 $ 610 $ (584 ) n/m The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the decline in our core business units, hotels and vacation ownership, due to the severe impact from the global economic crisis as discussed above and the related impairments and restructuring charges previously discussed. Additionally, operating income was impacted by a 32 Table of Contents $17 million charge, recorded in the vacation ownership costs and expenses line, related to a price reduction in vacation ownership intervals, following an in depth review of the business. These decreases were partially offset by the reduction in selling, general, administrative and other costs as a result of our activity value analysis costs savings project and other cost savings initiatives and a favorable $14 million income item related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on an indirect tax exposure and a Brazilian water claim. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Equity (Losses) Earnings and Gains and Losses from Unconsolidated Ventures, Net $ (4 ) $ 16 $ (20 ) n/m The decrease in equity earnings and gains and losses from unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to decreased operating results at several properties owned by joint ventures in which we hold non controlling interests. The decrease also relates to a charge of approximately $4 million, in 2009, related to an unfavorable mark to market adjustment on a US dollar denominated loan in an unconsolidated venture in Mexico. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Net Interest Expense $ 227 $ 207 $ 20 9.7 % The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to higher interest rates in the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the same period of 2008 and early debt extinguishment costs of $21 million that were incurred in 2009. This was partially offset by a lower average debt balance in 2009 as compared to 2008. Our weighted average interest rate was 6.73% at December 31, 2009 as compared to 5.24% at December 31, 2008. Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Loss on Asset Dispositions and Impairments, Net $ (91 ) $ (98 ) $ (7 ) (7.1 )% During 2009, we recorded a net loss on dispositions of approximately $91 million, primarily related to $41 million of impairment charges on six hotels whose carrying values exceeded their fair values, a $22 million impairment of our retained interests in vacation ownership mortgage receivables, a $13 million impairment of an investment in a hotel management contract that has been cancelled, a $5 million impairment of certain technology related fixed assets and a $4 million loss on the sale of a wholly owned hotel. During 2008, we recorded a net loss of $98 million primarily related to $64 million of impairment charges on five hotels, a $22 million impairment of our investment in vacation ownership notes receivable that we have previously securitized, and an $11 million write off of our investment in a joint venture in which we hold minority interest (see Note 5). Increase/ Percentage Year Ended Year Ended (Decrease) Change December 31, December 31, from Prior from Prior 2009 2008 Year Year Income Tax (Benefit) Expense $ (293 ) $ 72 $ (365 ) n/m The $365 million decrease in income tax expense primarily relates to a deferred tax benefit of $120 million (net) in 2009 for an Italian tax incentive program in which the tax basis of land and buildings for the hotels we own in Italy was stepped up to fair value in exchange for paying a current tax of $9 million. The remaining decrease primarily relates to tax benefits of $67 million associated with impairments, restructuring and asset sales and $37 million related to a foreign tax credit election change. Additionally, a benefit of $10 million was recognized to reverse the deferred interest accrual associated with the deferral of taxable income. The remaining decrease is primarily due to lower pretax income. 33 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax During 2009, we sold our Bliss spa business and other non core assets for cash proceeds of $227 million. Revenues and expenses from the Bliss spa business, together with revenues and expenses from two hotels which were sold in 2010, were reported in discontinued operations resulting in a loss of $2 million, net of tax. In addition, the net gain on the assets sold in 2009 and the one hotel held for sale at December 31, 2009 has been recorded in discontinued operations resulting in income of $76 million, net of tax. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the gain on dispositions includes a $124 million gain ($129 million pretax) on the sale of three properties which were sold unencumbered by management or franchise contracts. The tax impact on this transaction was minimized due to the utilization of capital loss carryforwards. Additionally, in 2009, $5 million was reclassified to discontinued operations (in the 2008 results) relating to one hotel that was in the process of being sold at the end of 2009. Discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 also includes a $49 million tax charge as a result of a 2008 administrative tax ruling for an unrelated taxpayer, that impacts the tax liability associated with the disposition of one of our businesses several years ago. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash From Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities is generated primarily from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned hotels and sales of VOIs and residential units. Other sources of cash are distributions from joint ventures, servicing financial assets and interest income. These are the principal sources of cash used to fund our operating expenses, interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividend payments and property and income taxes. We believe that our existing borrowing availability together with capacity for additional borrowings and cash from operations will be adequate to meet all funding requirements for our operating expenses, principal and interest payments on debt, capital expenditures, dividends and any share repurchase program we may initiate in the foreseeable future. The majority of our cash flow is derived from corporate and leisure travelers and is dependent on the supply and demand in the lodging industry. In a recessionary economy, we experience significant declines in business and leisure travel. The impact of declining demand in the industry and higher hotel supply in key markets could have a material impact on our sources of cash. Our day to day operations are financed through net working capital, a practice that is common in our industry. The ratio of our current assets to current liabilities was 1.07 and 0.74 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Consistent with industry practice, we sweep the majority of the cash at our owned hotels on a daily basis and fund payables as needed by drawing down on our existing revolving credit facility. State and local regulations governing sales of VOIs and residential properties allow the purchaser of such a VOI or property to rescind the sale subsequent to its completion for a pre specified number of days. In addition, cash payments received from buyers of units under construction are held in escrow during the period prior to obtaining a certificate of occupancy. These payments and the deposits collected from sales during the rescission period are the primary components of our restricted cash balances in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had short term restricted cash balances of $53 million and $47 million, respectively. During 2010, we completed a series of disposition, financing and other transactions that resulted in proceeds of approximately $650 million as outlined below: We securitized vacation ownership receivables resulting in proceeds of approximately $180 million. We sold assets that resulted in cash proceeds of approximately $150 million. We received a tax refund from the IRS of $245 million (see Note 15). We received proceeds of $75 million as a result of the favorable settlement of a lawsuit. 34 Table of Contents Cash From Investing Activities Gross capital spending during the full year ended December 31, 2010 was as follows (in millions): Maintenance Capital Expenditures(1): Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels $ 106 Corporate and information technology 42 Subtotal 148 Vacation Ownership and Residential Capital Expenditures(2): Net capital expenditures for inventory (excluding St. Regis Bal Harbour) (34 ) Capital expenditures for inventory St. Regis Bal Harbour 146 Subtotal 112 Development Capital 117 Total Capital Expenditures $ 377 (1) Maintenance capital expenditures include improvements, renewals and extraordinary repairs that extend the useful life of the asset. (2) Represents gross inventory capital expenditures of $168 less cost of sales of $56. Gross capital spending during the year ended December 31, 2010 included approximately $148 million of maintenance capital, and $117 million of development capital. Investment spending on gross vacation ownership interest and residential inventory was $168 million, primarily in Bal Harbour, Florida. Our capital expenditure program includes both offensive and defensive capital. Defensive spending is related to maintenance and renovations that we believe are necessary to stay competitive in the markets we are in. Other than capital to address fire and life safety issues, we consider defensive capital to be discretionary, although reductions to this capital program could result in decreases to our cash flow from operations, as hotels in certain markets could become less desirable. The offensive capital expenditures, which are primarily related to new projects that we expect will generate a return, are also considered discretionary. We currently anticipate that our defensive capital expenditures for the full year 2011 (excluding vacation ownership and residential inventory) will be approximately $300 million for maintenance, renovations, and technology capital. In addition, for the full year 2011, we currently expect to spend approximately $150 million for investment projects. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we made a $23 million investment into an unconsolidated joint venture. Our partner in the joint venture contributed an equal amount and the funds were used to pay off a third party mortgage. Our interest in this unconsolidated joint venture was subsequently sold, and we received cash proceeds of approximately $42 million. Additionally, we will continue to manage the hotel, formerly owned by the joint venture, under a long term management contract. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we paid approximately $23 million to acquire a controlling interest in a joint venture in which we had previously held a non controlling interest (see Note 4). In order to secure management or franchise agreements, we have made loans to third party owners, made minority investments in joint ventures and provided certain guarantees and indemnifications. See Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements for discussion regarding the amount of loans we have outstanding with owners, unfunded loan commitments, equity and other potential contributions, surety bonds outstanding, performance guarantees and indemnifications we are obligated under, and investments in hotels and joint ventures. We intend to finance the acquisition of additional hotel properties (including equity investments), construction of the St. Regis Bal Harbour, hotel renovations, VOI and residential construction, capital improvements, technology spend and other core and ancillary business acquisitions and investments and provide for general corporate purposes (including dividend payments and share repurchases) through our credit facilities described below, through the net proceeds from dispositions, through the assumption of debt, and from cash generated from operations. 35 Table of Contents We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non core (including hotels where the return on invested capital is not adequate), no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments. Since 2006, we have sold 62 hotels realizing proceeds of approximately $5.3 billion in numerous transactions (see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements). There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete future dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The 2010 asset sales resulted in gross cash proceeds from investing activities of approximately $150 million and are discussed in our general liquidity discussion under cash used for financing activities. Cash Used for Financing Activities The following is a summary of our debt portfolio (including capital leases) as of December 31, 2010: Amount Outstanding at Interest Rate at December 31, December 31, Average 2010(a) 2010 Maturity (Dollars in millions) (In years) Floating Rate Debt Revolving Credit Facilities $ 2.8 Mortgages and Other 41 5.99 % 2.3 Interest Rate Swaps 500 4.83 % Total/Average $ 541 4.92 % 2.3 Fixed Rate Debt Senior Notes $ 2,698 7.26 % 4.1 Mortgages and Other 118 7.56 % 7.2 Interest Rate Swaps (500 ) 7.06 % Total/Average $ 2,316 7.31 % 4.2 Total Debt Total Debt and Average Terms $ 2,857 6.86 % 4.2 (a) Excludes approximately $434 million of our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt and securitized vacation ownership debt of $494 million, all of which is non recourse. For specifics related to our financing transactions, issuances, and terms entered into for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, see Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. We have evaluated the commitments of each of the lenders in our Revolving Credit Facilities (the Facilities). In addition, we have reviewed our debt covenants and do not anticipate any issues regarding the availability of funds under the Facilities. On April 20, 2010, we executed a new $1.5 billion Senior Credit Facility (New Facility). The New Facility matures on November 15, 2013 and replaces the former $1.875 billion Revolving Credit Agreement, which would have matured on February 11, 2011. Due to the adoption of ASU Nos. 2009 16 and 2009 17, as discussed in Notes 2, 10, and 11, our 2010 cash flows from financing activities include the borrowings and repayments of securitized vacation ownership debt. During 2010, as previously described in Cash from Operating Activities, we completed a series of disposition, financing and other transactions that resulted in proceeds of approximately $650 million. As a result of these transactions and cash flow from operations, net debt was reduced to $2.060 billion compared to net debt of $2.819 billion as of December 31, 2009. Our gross debt at December 31, 2010 was $2.857 billion, excluding debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable. Additionally, we had cash and cash equivalents of $797 million (including $44 million of restricted cash) at December 31, 2010. As discussed earlier, we adopted 36 Table of Contents ASU Nos. 2009 16 and 2009 17 on January 1, 2010 and, as a result, at December 31, 2010 we had $494 million of non recourse debt and $19 million of restricted cash associated with securitized vacation ownership receivables. Including this debt and restricted cash associated with securitized vacation ownership receivables, our net debt was $2.535 billion at December 31, 2010. Our Facilities are used to fund general corporate cash needs. As of December 31, 2010, we have availability of over $1.4 billion under the Facilities. We have reviewed the financial covenants associated with our Facilities, the most restrictive being the leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with this covenant and expect to remain in compliance through the end of 2011. We have the ability to manage the business in order to reduce our leverage ratio by reducing operating costs, selling, general and administrative costs and postponing discretionary capital expenditures. However, there can be no assurance that we will stay below the required leverage ratio if the current economic climate deteriorates. Based upon the current level of operations, management believes that our cash flow from operations and asset sales, together with our significant cash balances (approximately $816 million at December 31, 2010, including $63 million of short term and long term restricted cash), available borrowings under the Facilities and other bank credit facilities (approximately $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010), and capacity for additional borrowings will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for scheduled maturities, dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, marketing and advertising program expenditures, other discretionary investments, interest and scheduled principal payments and share repurchases for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due and, if refinanced, on favorable terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that in our continuing business we will generate cash flow at or above historical levels, that currently anticipated results will be achieved or that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell additional assets at lower than preferred amounts, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing at unfavorable rates. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and vacation ownership industries and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control. We had the following contractual obligations (1) outstanding as of December 31, 2010 (in millions): Due in Less Due in Due in Due After Total Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Debt(2) $ 2,855 $ 9 $ 1,210 $ 951 $ 685 Interest payable 890 208 322 204 156 Capital lease obligations(3) 2 2 Operating lease obligations(4) 1,345 96 161 149 939 Unconditional purchase obligations(5) 225 69 124 28 4 Other long term obligations 3 2 1 Total contractual obligations $ 5,320 $ 384 $ 1,818 $ 1,332 $ 1,786 (1) The table below excludes unrecognized tax benefits that would require cash outlays for $341 million, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on this matter. In addition, the table excludes amounts related to the construction of our St. Regis Bal Harbour project that has a total project cost of $750 million, of which $532 million has been paid through December 31, 2010. (2) Excludes securitized debt of $494 million, all of which is non recourse. (3) Excludes sublease income of $2 million. (4) Excludes sublease income of $13 million. (5) Included in these balances are commitments that may be reimbursed or satisfied by our managed and franchised properties. 37 Table of Contents We had the following commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2010 (in millions): Less Than After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Standby letters of credit $ 159 $ 144 $ 12 $ $ 3 A dividend of $0.30 per share was paid in December 2010 to shareholders of record as of December 16, 2010. A dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in January 2010 to shareholders of record as of December 31, 2009. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements include letters of credit of $159 million, unconditional purchase obligations of $225 million and surety bonds of $23 million. These items are more fully discussed earlier in this section and in the Notes to Financial Statements and Item 8 of Part II of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. In limited instances, we seek to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. We continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. We enter into a derivative financial arrangement to the extent it meets the objectives described above, and we do not engage in such transactions for trading or speculative purposes. At December 31, 2010, we were party to the following derivative instruments: Forward contracts to hedge forecasted transactions for management and franchise fee revenues earned in foreign currencies. The aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts was approximately $37 million, and they expire in 2011. Forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested. The aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts was approximately $759 million and they expire in 2011. 38 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our debt portfolio and other financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 (in millions, excluding average exchange rates): Total Fair Expected Maturity or Transaction Date Total at Value at At December 31, December 31, December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter 2010 2010 Liabilities Fixed rate $ 8 $ 415 $ 306 $ 444 $ 456 $ 687 $ 2,316 $ 2,588 Average interest rate 7.31 % Floating rate $ 1 $ 238 $ 251 $ 50 $ 1 $ $ 541 $ 541 Average interest rate 4.92 % Forward Foreign Exchange Hedge Contracts: Fixed (EUR) to Fixed (USD) $ 31 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate 1.33 Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (USD) $ 6 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .01 Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts: Fixed (EUR) to Fixed (USD) $ 110 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 $ 1 Average Exchange rate 1.33 Fixed (CLP) to Fixed (USD) $ 52 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Average Exchange rate .00 Fixed (THB) to Fixed (USD) $ 13 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average Exchange rate .03 Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (USD) $ 60 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Average Exchange rate .01 Fixed (CAD) to Fixed (USD) $ 358 $ $ $ $ $ $ (5 ) $ (5 ) Average Exchange rate 1.00 Fixed (AUD) to Fixed (USD) $ 29 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Average Exchange rate .99 Fixed (AUD) to Fixed (EUR) $ 63 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Fixed (GBP) to Fixed (EUR) $ 56 $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) $ (1 ) Fixed (JPY) to Fixed (THB) $ 18 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 39 Table of Contents 
 
