Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. All the FERC hydroelectric facility licenses held by Integrys Energy Services subsidiaries are current. The 33 megawatt hydroelectric facility owned in New Brunswick, Canada, is not subject to licensing. Other Matters Customer Segmentation Although Integrys Energy Services is not dependent on any one customer, a significant percentage of its retail sales volume is derived from industries related to: Paper and allied products; Food and kindred products; Chemicals and paint; and Steel and foundries. Integrys Energy Services concentration of sales in any single market sector is decreasing as it expands into the Illinois, Texas and northeast United States retail electric markets and eastern Canada retail natural gas markets. 21 Seasonality Integrys Energy Services believes that its business, in the aggregate, is not seasonal, even though certain products sell more heavily in some seasons than in others. Sales of natural gas generally peak in the winter months, while sales of electric energy generally peak in the summer months. Generally in the summer months, the demand for electric energy is high, which increases the price at which energy can be sold. In periods of high residential fuel consumption, (generally the winter months), the purchase price of oil and natural gas increases, which increases the production costs at Integrys Energy Services gas and oil fired generation facilities. Integrys Energy Services business is volatile as a result of market conditions and the related market opportunities available to its customers. Competition Integrys Energy Services is a nonregulated energy marketer that competes against regulated utilities, large energy trading companies and other energy marketers. Integrys Energy Services competes with other energy providers on the basis of price, reliability, service, financial strength, consumer convenience, performance and reputation. The nonregulated energy market has seen a decrease in the number of large energy providers and there continues to be consolidation of small energy marketers. The liquidity in the nonregulated energy market continues to improve with the increase of well capitalized wholesale market participants. Although this increases competition, it creates a more efficient market, creating more opportunities for Integrys Energy Services in the nonregulated markets. Working Capital Currently, capital requirements of Integrys Energy Services are provided through equity infusions, long term debt and short term debt by its parent company, Integrys Energy Group. The working capital needs of Integrys Energy Services vary significantly over time due to volatility in commodity prices (including margin calls), levels of natural gas inventories, the structure of wholesale transactions, the price of natural gas and alternative energy opportunities available to its customers. Integrys Energy Group provides guarantees for Integrys Energy Services supply contracts. These guarantees provide the credit support needed to participate in the nonregulated energy market. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for additional information regarding working capital needs of nonregulated operations. E. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS For information on environmental matters related to Integrys Energy Group and any of its subsidiaries, see Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. F. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS For information on capital requirements related to Integrys Energy Group, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group. For information on capital requirements related to WPSC, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources WPSC. 22 G. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries had the following employees: Electric Utility Natural Gas Utility Common Utility Nonregulated Total WPSC 219 131 1,962 2,312 MERC 221 221 MGUC 181 181 UPPCO 170 170 Integrys Energy Services 387 387 Integrys Energy Group 55 55 Total 389 533 1,962 442 3,326 Local 310 of the International Union of Operating Engineers represents 1,087 WPSC employees. The current Local 310 collective bargaining agreement expired on October 21, 2006. A new tentative agreement has been negotiated. A vote on ratification is expected in the first quarter of 2007. WPSC and Local 310 continue to operate under the expired labor agreement. Local 510 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL CIO, represents approximately 130 employees at UPPCO. The current collective bargaining agreement expires on April 19, 2008. MGUC has labor contracts with two unions; Local 12295 of the United Steelworkers of America, AFL CIO CLC, and Local 417 of the Utility Workers Union of America, AFL CIO. Local 12295 of the United Steelworkers of America, AFL CIO CLC, represents approximately 83 employees at MGUC. In January 2007, MGUC and Local 12295 agreed to a three year contract, which will expire on January 15, 2010. Local 417 of the Utility Workers Union of America, AFL CIO, represents approximately 35 employees at MGUC. Their current collective bargaining agreement expires on February 15, 2008. Local 31 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL CIO, represents approximately 44 employees at MERC. The current collective bargaining agreement expires on May 31, 2007. H. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Integrys Energy Group and WPSC file with the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10 K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q; Integrys Energy Group proxy statements; Registration statements, including prospectuses; Current Reports on Form 8 K; and Any amendments to these documents. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC make these reports available free of charge, on Integrys Energy Groups Internet web site, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Integrys Energy Groups Internet address is www.integrysgroup.com. Statements and amendments posted on Integrys Energy Groups web site do not include access to exhibits and supplemental schedules electronically filed with the reports or amendments. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC are not including the information contained on or available through their web sites as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10 K. You may also obtain materials filed with the SEC by Integrys Energy Group and WPSC at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. To obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you may call 1 800 SEC 0330. You may also view reports, proxy statements and other information regarding Integrys Energy Group and WPSC (including exhibits), filed with the SEC, at their web site at www.sec.gov. 23 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, when making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. We may not successfully integrate pending or future acquisitions into our operations or otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we continue to pursue a disciplined acquisition strategy. While we expect to identify cost savings and growth opportunities before we acquire companies or assets, we may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits due to, among other things: Delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; Higher than expected costs or a need to allocate additional resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; Parameters imposed or delays caused by regulatory agencies; Reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given acquisition; Inability to retain key employees or customers of acquired companies; and Assumption of liabilities not identified in the due diligence process. These risks apply to our recently completed acquisition of Aquilas Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations as well as our merger with Peoples Energy which closed on February 21, 2007. Integrys Energy Group and Peoples Energy entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although we expect to achieve these anticipated benefits of the merger, achieving them is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: the extent to which regulatory authorities will require the combined company to share a disproportionate amount of the expected or achieved synergies of the merger with customers, any of which may have an adverse effect on the combined company; resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations (including the recovery of deferred costs) and other regulatory decisions impacting Integrys Energy Groups regulated businesses, including the rate treatment of synergies and the cost to achieve those synergies; the ability of the two companies to combine certain of their operations or take advantage of expected growth opportunities; general market and economic conditions; general competitive factors in the marketplace; and higher than expected costs required to achieve the expected synergies. No assurance can be given that these benefits will be achieved or, if achieved, the timing of their achievement. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amount of expected revenues or net income of the combined company. The integration of Peoples Energy following the merger will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated potential benefits of the merger. The merger involves the combination of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies operations include, but are not limited to: combining the best practices of two companies, including utility operations, non regulated energy marketing operations and staff functions; the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 24 reducing the costs associated with each companys operations; and preserving important relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. The process of combining operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined companys businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of managements attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the two companies operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the now combined company. Integrys Energy Group expects the merger to generate potential pre tax cost synergy savings of $94 million for the combined company on an annualized basis by the end of the fifth full year of operations following completion of the merger (excluding costs of integration). These savings may not be realized within the time periods contemplated, or at all. Integrys Energy Group will incur significant transaction, merger related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger with Peoples Energy. Integrys Energy Group expects to incur costs associated with combining the operations of two companies, as well as transaction fees and other costs related to the merger. Integrys Energy Group will also incur restructuring and integration costs in connection with the merger. The estimated total cost of accomplishing the merger and achieving synergies and cost savings is approximately $186 million in transaction and integration costs (excluding internal labor costs), most of which will be incurred through 2010. The costs related to restructuring will be treated as a liability and will be included in the total purchase price or expensed as a cost of the ongoing results of operations, depending on the nature of the restructuring activity. Although Integrys Energy Group expects the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, to offset incremental transaction, merger related and restructuring costs over time, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Integrys Energy Group has recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect the companys operating results. The merger with Peoples Energy and the acquisition of gas distribution assets from Aquila are accounted for as purchases by Integrys Energy Group in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities will be recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition and added to those of Integrys Energy Group. The reported financial condition and results of operations of Integrys Energy Group issued after completion of the merger will reflect Peoples Energy balances and results after completion of the merger, but will not be restated retroactively to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Peoples Energy for periods prior to the merger. Following completion of the merger, the earnings of the combined company will reflect purchase accounting adjustments. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price will be allocated to Peoples Energys tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date the merger was completed. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. We expect that the merger will result in a significant amount of goodwill based upon the application of purchase accounting. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, Integrys Energy Group may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined companys operating results. Integrys Energy Groups oil and natural gas producing operations involve many risks associated with estimates and assumptions used in making capital expenditure decisions. In addition to the operational risks described above, the oil and natural gas drilling operations are also subject to the risk of not encountering commercially productive reservoirs and Integrys Energy Group may 25 not recover all or any portion of its investment in those wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only because of dry holes but also due to wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating, production taxes and other costs. In addition, estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process that involves significant interpretations of technical data and assumptions that result in reserve estimates being inherently imprecise. Integrys Energy Group utilizes a 10% discount factor when estimating the value of its reserves, as prescribed by the SEC, and this may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which the production business or the natural gas and oil industry, in general, are subject. Any significant variations from the interpretations or assumptions used in the estimates or changes of conditions could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of the Integrys Energy Groups reserves to differ materially from amounts disclosed in this document. We are subject to changes in government regulation, which may have a negative impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the PSCW, MPSC, MPUC, FERC, SEC, EPA, Minnesota Office of Pipeline Safety and the WDNR regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities and the rates that we can charge customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate our business. On February 21, 2007, the merger with Peoples Energy was closed. Peoples Energys primary regulated natural gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the ICC. The rates our regulated utilities are allowed to charge for their retail and wholesale services are some of the most important items influencing our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional expenses or change business operations, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, federal regulatory reforms may produce unexpected changes and costs in the public utility industry. We may not complete construction projects within estimated project costs. WPSC is currently in the process of constructing the 500 megawatt Weston 4 base load generation facility at an estimated cost of $779 million (including the coal trains). WPSC is responsible for 70% of these costs. This and other projects also may be subject to joint ownership or operation agreements, completion of which will impact estimated project costs. This a very large and complex construction project, subject to numerous unpredictable events that could affect our ability to timely complete construction within estimated costs. We may not be able to meet these construction estimates due to, among other things: Fluctuating or unanticipated construction costs; Supply delays; Legal claims; and Environmental regulation. We may not utilize Section 29/45K synthetic fuel production tax credits. We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal income tax liability for the past several years through tax credits available to us under Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code for the production and sale of solid synthetic fuel from coal. We have not fully utilized Section 29/45K tax credits previously 26 available to us. Our ability to fully utilize the Section 29/45K tax credits available to us in connection with our interest in the production facility will depend on whether the amount of our federal taxable income and related income tax liability is sufficient to permit the use of such credits. The Internal Revenue Service strictly enforces compliance with all of the technical requirements of Section 29/45K. Section 29/45K tax credits are currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2007. Any disallowance of some or all of those tax credits could materially affect our tax obligations and may also result in a reduction of the level of synthetic fuel production at the facility, thus reducing the likelihood and amount of future payments from other participants in the project. Future tax legislation and Internal Revenue Service review may also affect the value of the credits and of our share of the facility. At this time, we cannot predict the potential for or the outcome of any Internal Revenue Service review. Our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to weather, terrorist attacks or related acts of war. Our revenues are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: Weather conditions, seasonality and temperature extremes; Fluctuations in economic activity and growth in our regulated service areas, as well as areas in which our nonregulated subsidiaries operate; and The amount of additional energy available from current or new competitors. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, in excess of reserves established for such repairs, may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover such terrorist activity may impact our results of operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions of power and fuel markets. In addition, our natural gas distribution system and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist activity. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities, fines, penalties and litigation could exceed our estimates. Compliance with current and future federal and state environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. Integrys Energy Group cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up and compliance costs and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. Any future changes in the interpretation of the Clean Air Acts New Source Review provisions could potentially increase operating and maintenance costs substantially. On March 15, 2005, the EPA, adopted the Clean Air Mercury Rule, which is intended to reduce mercury emissions from coal fired generation plants. The EPA has also issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule requiring reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions. In addition, the possibility exists of future regulation of greenhouse gases emitted from generation facilities. Integrys Energy Group cannot be certain how these rules will affect it. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. Citizen groups that feel there are compliance issues not sufficiently enforced by environmental regulatory agencies may bring citizen enforcement actions against us. Such actions could seek penalties, injunctive relief and costs of litigation. 27 Any change in our ability to sell electricity generated from our nonregulated facilities at market based rates may impact earnings. The FERC has authorized us to sell generation from our nonregulated facilities at market prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw our market based rate authority. If the FERC determines that the market is not workably competitive, that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable rates, it may require our nonregulated subsidiaries to sell power at a price based upon the costs incurred in producing the power. Our revenues and profit margins may be negatively affected by any reduction by the FERC of the rates we may receive. Fluctuating commodity prices may reduce regulated and nonregulated energy margins. Our regulated energy margins are directly affected by commodity costs related to coal, natural gas and other fuels used in the electric generation process. The commodity price of market purchases of electricity also directly affects our regulated energy margins. Higher commodity prices increase energy prices and may impact customer demand for energy in the nonregulated market and increase counterparty risk. This may stress margins at our nonregulated subsidiaries. Integrys Energy Services may experience increased expenses, including interest costs and uncollectibles, higher working capital requirements and possibly some reduction in volumes sold as a result of any increase in the cost of fuel or purchased power. If market prices for electric energy decline below the cost of production at our nonregulated facilities, these units may be temporarily shut down and alternative sources of energy would need to be found to meet energy commitments economically. A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot be sure that any of our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a credit rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could: Increase our borrowing costs; Require us to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and possibly reduce the potential pool of creditors; Increase our borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities; Limit our access to the commercial paper market; and Limit the availability of adequate credit support for Integrys Energy Services operations. Actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and actual results could differ from those estimates. For more information about these estimates and assumptions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 28 The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. We use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In addition, we purchase and sell commodity based contracts in the natural gas and electric energy markets for trading purposes. In the future, we could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Additionally, realized values could differ from values determined by management. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity based trading contracts, see Note 3 Risk Management Activities in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We are subject to provisions that can limit merger and acquisition opportunities for our shareholders. The Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility consumers, investors and the public. Those interests may, to some extent, be mutually exclusive. This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Public Utility Holding Company Law may delay, or reduce the likelihood of, a sale or change of control thus reducing the likelihood that shareholders will receive a takeover premium for their shares. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and may prevent or delay a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company that is not approved by our board of directors, even if the shareholders believe that such events may be beneficial to their interests. In addition, the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law contains provisions that may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult attempts by others to obtain control of our company without the approval of our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES A. REGULATED WPSC Facilities The following table summarizes information on the electric generation facilities of WPSC, including owned or jointly owned facilities as of December 31, 2006: Type Name Location Fuel Rated Capacity (Megawatts) (a) Steam Pulliam (6 units) Green Bay, WI Coal 378.5 Weston (3 units) Wausau, WI Coal 475.8 Columbia Units 1 and 2 Portage, WI Coal 354.1 (b) Edgewater Unit 4 Sheboygan, WI Coal 100.9 (b) Total Steam 1,309.3 Hydroelectric Alexander Lincoln County, WI Hydro 2.2 Caldron Falls Marinette County, WI Hydro 6.8 Castle Rock Adams County, WI Hydro 12.9 (b) Grand Rapids Menominee County, WI Hydro 3.3 Grandfather Falls Lincoln County, WI Hydro 17.2 Hat Rapids Oneida County, WI Hydro 0.6 High Falls Marinette County, WI Hydro 1.1 Jersey Lincoln County, WI Hydro 0.2 Johnson Falls Marinette County, WI Hydro 0.9 Merrill Lincoln County, WI Hydro 1.0 Otter Rapids Vilas County, WI Hydro 0.3 Peshtigo Marinette County, WI Hydro 0.2 Petenwell Adams County, WI Hydro 8.2 (b) Potato Rapids Marinette County, WI Hydro 0.4 Sandstone Rapids Marinette County, WI Hydro 0.8 Tomahawk Lincoln County, WI Hydro 2.3 Wausau Marathon County, WI Hydro 2.9 Total Hydroelectric 61.3 Combustion De Pere Energy Center De Pere, WI Natural Gas 184.2 Turbine and Eagle River Eagle River, WI Distillate Fuel Oil 4.1 Diesel Oneida Casino Green Bay, WI Distillate Fuel Oil 3.9 Juneau #31 Adams County, WI Distillate Fuel Oil 7.3 (b) West Marinette #31 Marinette, WI Natural Gas 39.5 West Marinette #32 Marinette, WI Natural Gas 39.0 West Marinette #33 Marinette, WI Natural Gas 52.2 (b) Weston #31 Marathon County, WI Natural Gas 16.1 Weston #32 Marathon County, WI Natural Gas 49.5 Pulliam #31 Green Bay, WI Natural Gas 75.4 Total Combustion Turbine and Diesel 471.2 Wind Lincoln Kewaunee County, WI Wind 1.7 Glenmore (2 units) Brown County, WI Wind Total Wind 1.7 Total System 1,843.5 (a) Based on capacity ratings for July 2007. As a result of continually reaching demand peaks in the summer months, primarily due to air conditioning demand, the summer period is the most relevant for capacity planning purposes. (b) These facilities are jointly owned by WPSC and various other utilities. Wisconsin Power and Light Company operates the Columbia and Edgewater units. Wisconsin River Power Company operates the Castle Rock, Petenwell and Juneau units. WPSC and Marshfield Electric and Water Department jointly own West Marinette 33, which WPSC operates. The capacity indicated is our portion of total plant capacity based on the percent of ownership. As of December 31, 2006, WPSC owned 120 distribution substations and 21,323 miles of electric distribution lines. 30 Natural gas properties include approximately 7,694 miles of main, 86 gate and city regulator stations and 289,651 lateral services. All natural gas facilities are located in Wisconsin except for distribution facilities in and near the City of Menominee, Michigan. Substantially all of WPSCs utility plant is subject to a first mortgage lien. UPPCO Facilities The following table summarizes information on the electric generation facilities of UPPCO as of December 31, 2006: Type Name Location Fuel Rated Capacity (Megawatts) (a) Steam Warden LAnse, MI Gas 18.8 (b) Total Steam 18.8 Hydroelectric Victoria (2 units) Ontonagon County, MI Hydro 10.6 Hoist (3 units) Marquette County, MI Hydro 1.2 McClure (2 units) Marquette County, MI Hydro 3.8 Prickett (2 units) Houghton County, MI Hydro 0.4 Autrain (2 units) Alger County, MI Hydro 0.5 Cataract Marquette County, MI Hydro 0.3 Escanaba #1 Delta County, MI Hydro 1.0 Escanaba #3 Delta County, MI Hydro 1.2 Boney Falls Delta County, MI Hydro 1.3 Total Hydroelectric 20.3 Combustion Turbine Portage Houghton, MI Oil 19.7 Gladstone Gladstone, MI Oil 20.3 Total Combustion Turbine 40.0 Total System 79.1 (a) Based on July 2007 rated capacity. (b) The J. H. Warden station was taken out of service on January 1, 1994. The facility was put into service for a short period after the Dead River Flood in 2004 and is now once again in standby or inactive reserve status. UPPCO owns 3,070 miles of electric distribution lines. Substantially all of UPPCOs utility plant is subject to a first mortgage lien. MERC Natural gas properties include approximately 4,323 miles of main. Substantially all natural gas facilities are located in Minnesota. MGUC Natural gas properties include approximately 3,562 miles of distribution main, 159 miles of transmission main and 27 gate and city regulator stations. MGUC also owns a 3.6 billion cubic foot natural gas storage field. All natural gas facilities are located in Michigan. 31 B. NONREGULATED Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Asset Management Strategy Integrys Energy Groups asset management strategy includes the continual evaluation of all properties and businesses held by Integrys Energy Group to identify their best use. Integrys Energy Group will evaluate whether the best use of the property or business is in current operations or if sale and reinvestment of proceeds is in the best interest of Integrys Energy Group, its shareholders and customers. As part of this strategy, in April 2006, Integrys Energy Group completed the sale of its one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, L.L.C., to Northern Border Partners, L.P. for approximately $38.5 million with an after tax gain of $3.7 million. In 2005, UPPCO identified approximately 7,300 acres of excess land associated with its hydroelectric facilities. In December 2005, UPPCO sold 1,366 acres of land along the Bond Falls Reservoir, Boney Falls Basin and Cataract Basin, which were no longer needed for operations of UPPCO. UPPCO is currently working with various interested parties to develop a sales strategy for the remainder of these properties. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services sold its 81.5% interest in a 3 billion cubic foot natural gas storage field in Kimball, Michigan for $19.9 million and recognized a $5.4 million after tax gain from the sale. In July 2006, Integrys Energy Services sold its subsidiary Sunbury Generation, LLC to Corona Power, LLC. Sunbury Generations primary asset was the Sunbury generation plant, located in Shamokin Dam, Pennsylvania. The gross proceeds received from the plant were approximately $34 million with a total after tax gain of $12.5 million. In January 2007, Integrys Energy Services completed the sale of WPS Niagara Generation, LLC, for approximately $31 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The after tax gain on this transaction is approximately $15 million. 32 Integrys Energy Services Generation Facilities The following table summarizes information on the electric generation facilities owned by Integrys Energy Services, including jointly owned facilities as of December 31, 2006: Type Name Location Fuel Rated Capacity (Megawatts) (a) Steam Caribou Caribou, ME Oil 21.7 (b) Niagara Falls Niagara Falls, NY Coal 50.1 (c) Stoneman Cassville, WI Coal 45.4 Westwood Tremont, PA Culm 30.0 Total Steam 147.2 Combined Cycle Syracuse Syracuse, NY Gas/Oil 86.4 Beaver Falls Beaver Falls, NY Gas/Oil 78.9 Combined Locks Combined Locks, WI Gas 46.8 (d) Total Combined Cycle 212.1 Hydroelectric Tinker New Brunswick, Canada Hydro 34.5 Squa Pan Ashland, ME Hydro 1.2 Caribou Caribou, ME Hydro 0.9 Total Hydroelectric 36.6 Combustion Turbine Caribou Caribou, ME Diesel 7.0 and Diesel Tinker New Brunswick, Canada Diesel 1.0 Flos Inn Presque Isle, ME Diesel 4.2 Loring Limestone, ME Diesel 5.1 Total Combustion Turbine and Diesel 17.3 Total System 413.2 (a) Based on summer rated capacity. (b) Caribou Steam Unit 1 was reactivated on December 12, 2006 at 9 megawatts. Caribou Steam Unit 2 was reactivated on January 6, 2006 for a total (Units 1 and 2) of 21.7 megawatts. (c) The Niagara Falls facility was sold on January 31, 2007. (d) Integrys Energy Services also has an additional five megawatts of capacity available at this facility through the lease of an additional steam turbine. 33 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For information on material legal proceedings and matters related to Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries, see Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies to Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS At a special meeting of shareholders on December 6, 2006, the shareholders of Integrys Energy Group approved the issuance of shares of its common stock (approximately 32 million shares) as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 8, 2006 among WPS Resources Corporation, Wedge Acquisition Corp. and Peoples Energy Corporation. Also on December 6, 2006, the shareholders approved an amendment to Integrys Energy Groups restated articles of incorporation to change its name from WPS Resources to Integrys Energy Group, Inc. The final vote was: Votes Approve the Issuance of Shares Approve Amendment to Articles of Incorporation For 28,909,885 28,135,047 Against 1,018,890 1,758,283 Abstain 13,319,597 13,355,042 Total 43,248,372 43,248,372 34 ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS A. Executive Officers of Integrys Energy Group as of January 1, 2007 Name and Age Position and Business Experience During Past Five Years Effective Date Larry L. Weyers 61 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 02 12 98 Thomas P. Meinz 60 Executive Vice President Public Affairs 09 12 04 Senior Vice President Public Affairs 12 24 00 Phillip M. Mikulsky 58 Executive Vice President Development 09 12 04 Senior Vice President Development 02 12 98 Joseph P. OLeary 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 06 04 01 Bernard J. Treml 57 Senior Vice President Human Resources 12 19 04 Vice President Human Resources 02 12 98 Diane L. Ford 53 Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 07 11 99 Barbara A. Nick 48 Vice President Corporate Services 07 18 04 Assistant Vice President Corporate Services 04 14 02 Manager Corporate Services 11 20 00 Bradley A. Johnson 52 Vice President and Treasurer 07 18 04 Treasurer 06 23 02 Assistant Treasurer 04 01 01 Barth J. Wolf 49 Secretary and Manager Legal Services 09 19 99 NOTE: All ages are as of December 31, 2006. None of the executives listed above are related by blood, marriage, or adoption to any of the other officers listed or to any director of the Registrants. Each officer holds office until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation, disqualification, or removal. 35 B. Executive Officers of WPSC as of January 1, 2007 Name and Age Position and Business Experience During Past Five Years Effective Date Larry L. Weyers 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 08 15 04 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 04 14 02 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 02 12 98 Lawrence T. Borgard 45 President and Chief Operating Officer Energy Delivery 08 15 04 Vice President Distribution and Customer Service 11 25 01 Charles A. Schrock 53 President and Chief Operating Officer Generation 08 15 04 Senior Vice President of WPS Resources Corporation 09 14 03 President of WPS Power Development, Inc. 11 11 01 Thomas P. Meinz 60 Executive Vice President Public Affairs 09 12 04 Senior Vice President Public Affairs 12 24 00 Joseph P. OLeary 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 06 04 01 Bernard J. Treml 57 Senior Vice President Human Resources 12 19 04 Vice President Human Resources 05 09 94 David W. Harpole 51 Vice President Energy Supply Projects 02 14 04 Vice President Energy Supply 04 14 02 Assistant Vice President Energy Supply 11 12 00 Diane L. Ford 53 Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 07 11 99 Bradley A. Johnson 52 Vice President and Treasurer 07 18 04 Treasurer 06 23 02 Assistant Treasurer 04 01 01 Barth J. Wolf 49 Secretary and Manager Legal Services 09 19 99 NOTE: All ages are as of December 31, 2006. None of the executives listed above are related by blood, marriage, or adoption to any of the other officers listed or to any director of the Registrants. Each officer holds office until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation, disqualification, or removal. 36 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Common Stock Two Year Comparison Share Data Dividends Per Share Price Range High Low 2006 1st Quarter $ .565 $57.75 $49.02 2nd Quarter .565 51.60 47.39 3rd Quarter .575 52.88 47.67 4th Quarter .575 54.83 49.18 Total $2.280 2005 1st Quarter $ .555 $54.90 $47.67 2nd Quarter .555 56.90 51.11 3rd Quarter .565 60.00 54.50 4th Quarter .565 58.95 51.50 Total $2.240 Integrys Energy Group common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "TEG." Integrys Energy Group is the sole holder of WPSCs common stock. Dividend Restrictions For information on dividend restrictions related to Integrys Energy Group and any of its subsidiaries, see Note 21 Common Equity to Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Common Stock Listed: New York Stock Exchange Ticker Symbol: TEG Transfer Agent and Registrar: American Stock Transfer & Trust Company 59 Maiden Lane New York, NY 10038 As of February 22, 2006, there were 37,683 common stock shareholders of record. See Item 11 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information regarding our equity compensation plans. 37 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP, INC. COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL AND OTHER STATISTICS (2002 TO 2006) As of or for Year Ended December 31 (Millions, except per share amounts, stock price, return on average equity and number of shareholders and employees) 2006 (3) 2005 2004 2003 2002 Total revenues (1) $ 6,890.7 $ 6,825.5 $ 4,876.1 $ 4,309.8 $ 1,456.6 Income from continuing operations 151.6 150.6 156.6 110.7 119.1 Income available for common shareholders 155.8 157.4 139.7 94.7 109.4 Total assets 6,861.7 5,462.5 4,376.8 4,292.3 3,671.2 Preferred stock of subsidiaries 51.1 51.1 51.1 51.1 51.1 Long term debt and capital lease obligation (excluding current portion)(2) 1,287.2 867.1 865.7 871.9 824.4 Shares of common stock (less treasury stock and shares in deferred compensation trust) Outstanding 43.1 39.8 37.3 36.6 31.8 Average 42.3 38.3 37.4 33.0 31.7 Earnings per common share (basic) Income from continuing operations $ 3.51 $ 3.85 $ 4.10 $ 3.26 $ 3.66 Earnings per common share $ 3.68 $ 4.11 $ 3.74 $ 2.87 $ 3.45 Earnings per common share (diluted) Income from continuing operations 3.50 3.81 4.08 3.24 3.63 Earnings per common share 3.67 4.07 3.72 2.85 3.42 Dividend per share of common stock 2.28 2.24 2.20 2.16 2.12 Stock price at year end $ 54.03 $ 55.31 $ 49.96 $ 46.23 $ 38.82 Book value per share $ 35.61 $ 32.76 $ 29.30 $ 27.40 $ 24.62 Return on average equity 10.6 % 13.6 % 13.5 % 11.5 % 14.6 % Number of common stock shareholders 19,837 20,701 21,358 22,172 22,768 Number of employees 3,326 2,945 3,048 3,080 2,963 (1) Approximately $1,127 million of the increase in revenue in 2003 compared to 2002 related to Integrys Energy Services required adoption of FASBs Emerging Issues Task Force No. 02 03, "Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," effective January 1, 2003. (2) At December 31, 2001, there was a $72.1 million long term capital lease obligation recorded in Integrys Energy Groups financial statements related to an agreement with Calpine Corporation to purchase power from Calpines De Pere Energy Center. The capital lease was extinguished in December 2002 when Integrys Energy Group completed the purchase of the De Pere Energy Center. (3) Includes the impact of the acquisition of natural gas distribution assets from Aquila by MGUC on April 1, 2006 and MERC on July 1, 2006. WISCONSIN PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS (2002 TO 2006) As of or for Year Ended December 31 (Millions, except weather information) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Operating revenues $ 1,434.4 $ 1,454.9 $ 1,222.1 $ 1,129.1 $ 1,007.6 Earnings on common stock 99.0 81.4 104.8 78.9 83.1 Total assets 2,956.6 2,686.5 2,768.6 2,577.7 2,324.2 Long term debt (excluding current portion) 631.6 507.6 508.0 507.8 442.5 Weather information Cooling degree days 521 649 328 351 586 Cooling degree days as a percent of normal 110.1 % 135.2 % 66.7 % 72.2 % 122.9 % Heating degree days 6,785 7,401 7,546 7,883 7,509 Heating degree days as a percent of normal 88.5 % 96.2 % 97.6 % 102.2 % 96.9 % 38 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Integrys Energy Group is a diversified holding company operating through subsidiaries that provide energy and related services. Our wholly owned subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 included four regulated utilities, WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC. Another wholly owned subsidiary, WPS Resources Capital Corporation, is a holding company for our nonregulated subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services. Strategic Overview The focal point of Integrys Energy Groups business plan is the creation of long term value for our shareholders and our customers through growth, operational excellence, asset management, risk management, and the continued emphasis on reliable, competitively priced, and environmentally sound energy and energy related services. We are seeking growth of our regulated and nonregulated portfolio and placing an emphasis on regulated growth. A discussion of the essential components of our business strategy is set forth below. Maintain and Grow a Strong Regulated Utility Base We are focusing on growth in our regulated operations. A strong regulated utility base is important in order to maintain a strong balance sheet, predictable cash flows, a desired risk profile, attractive dividends, and quality credit ratings, which are critical to our success. Integrys Energy Group believes the following recent developments have helped, or will help, maintain and grow its regulated utility base: In February 2007, we consummated the merger with Peoples Energy Corporation. Upon completion of the merger, WPS Resources changed its name to Integrys Energy Group. As a result of the merger, Peoples Energy Corporation is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," for more information. WPSC is expanding its regulated generation fleet in order to meet growing electric demand and ensure continued reliability. Construction of the 500 megawatt coal fired Weston 4 base load power plant located near Wausau, Wisconsin, continues in partnership with DPC. In 2006 we completed the acquisition of Aquilas natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The addition of these regulated assets in close proximity to Integrys Energy Groups existing regulated electric and natural gas operations in Wisconsin and Michigan has transitioned Integrys Energy Group to a larger and stronger regional energy company. We have invested in ATC and received additional equity interest as consideration for funding a portion of the Duluth, Minnesota, to Wausau, Wisconsin, transmission line. WPSC continues to invest in environmental projects to improve air quality and meet the requirements set by environmental regulators. Capital projects to construct and upgrade equipment to meet or exceed required environmental standards are planned each year. Integrate Resources to Provide Operational Excellence Integrys Energy Group is committed to integrating resources of its regulated business units and also its nonregulated business units, while maintaining any and all applicable regulatory and legal restrictions. This will provide the best value to all customers by leveraging the individual capabilities and expertise of each unit and assist in lowering costs for certain activities. 39 The merger with Peoples Energy will align the best practices and expertise of both companies and result in efficiencies by eliminating redundant and overlapping functions and systems. The merger is expected to ultimately result in annual cost savings of approximately $87 million in the corporate and regulated businesses and $7 million in the nonregulated business. We anticipate achieving these ongoing synergies approximately five years from the closing date of the merger. One time costs to achieve the synergies are expected to be approximately $186 million. At our regulated business units, we are optimally sourcing work and combining resources to achieve best practices at WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC in order to achieve operational excellence and sustainable value for customers and shareholders. An initiative we call "Competitive Excellence" is being deployed across Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries. Competitive Excellence strives to eliminate work that does not provide value for customers. This will create more efficient processes, improve the effectiveness of employees, and reduce costs. Competitive Excellence will be utilized to help Integrys Energy Group achieve the anticipated synergies in the merger with Peoples Energy. Strategically Grow Nonregulated Businesses Integrys Energy Services will grow its electric and natural gas business (through strategic hiring and acquisitions, penetration in existing markets, and new product offerings) by targeting growth in areas where it has market expertise. Integrys Energy Services also focuses on optimizing the operational efficiency of its existing portfolio of assets and pursues compatible development projects that strategically fit with its customer base and market expertise. We expect our nonregulated operations to provide between 20% and 30% of our earnings, on average, in the future. The merger with Peoples Energy combines the complementary nonregulated energy marketing businesses of both companies. By combining the energy marketing businesses, we have more strategic opportunities to grow current nonregulated services by focusing on combined nonregulated retail and wholesale operations and disciplined risk management processes to create a stronger, more competitive, and better balanced growth platform for our nonregulated business. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Integrys Energy Services hired experienced personnel and put in the infrastructure to establish a wholesale electric product offering in Denver, Colorado. Operations will begin in 2007 with a focus on the MISO, PJM, Ontario (ESCO), and Western Systems Coordinating Council (WSCC) markets. Integrys Energy Services began developing a retail electric product offering in the Mid Atlantic market (Pennsylvania, Delaware, Washington DC, Maryland, and New Jersey) in 2006. Having been presented with a good opportunity to leverage its infrastructure throughout the northeastern United States, Integrys Energy Services hired experienced personnel in the Mid Atlantic region and will shortly begin signing up customers. Delivery of power to these customers is expected in the second quarter of 2007. Integrys Energy Services currently has a market presence in this region by servicing wholesale electric customers. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services began offering retail electric products to large commercial and industrial customers in Illinois, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island and delivered a total of 449,823 megawatt hours, 132,753 megawatt hours, and 36,184 megawatt hours, respectively, to each in 2006. In 2005, Integrys Energy Services was only offering natural gas products and energy management services to customers in Illinois and did not offer retail electric products in New Hampshire and Rhode Island. In September 2006, Integrys Energy Services won an Illinois auction bid to serve additional customers beginning in 2007, which will further expand Integrys Energy Services wholesale electric business. 40 Integrys Energy Services began developing a product offering in the Texas retail electric market in late 2005. Entry into Texas, with its thriving market structure, provides Integrys Energy Services with an opportunity to leverage the infrastructure and capability Integrys Energy Services developed to provide products and services that it believes customers will value. Integrys Energy Services started to deliver power to these customers in July 2006, and delivered a total of 177,692 megawatt hours to these customers in 2006. Integrys Energy Services continues to increase both its customer base (by signing up new enrollments) and volumes in the Texas retail electric market. Integrys Energy Services began marketing electric products to customers in Massachusetts in 2005 and has had initial success in signing up commercial and industrial customers. Retail volumes contributed by Massachusetts in 2006 were 184,560 megawatt hours. Integrys Energy Services continues to grow its retail natural gas business in Canada and Ohio through the addition of new customers. Place Strong Emphasis on Asset and Risk Management Our asset management strategy calls for the continuous assessment of our existing assets as well as a focus on the acquisition of assets that complement our existing business and strategy. This strategy also calls for a focus on the disposition of assets, including plants and entire business units, which are either no longer strategic to ongoing operations, are not performing as needed, or the disposition of which would reduce our risk profile. We maintain a portfolio approach to risk and earnings. The combination of Integrys Energy Group and Peoples Energy creates a larger, stronger, and more competitive regional energy company. This merger, along with the 2006 acquisition of the Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations from Aquila, diversifies the companys regulatory risk due to the expansion of utility operations to multiple jurisdictions. On February 21, 2007, subsequent to its merger with Peoples Energy Corporation, Integrys Energy Group announced its commitment to the sale of Peoples Energy Corporations oil and natural gas production business. The divesture of the oil and natural gas production business will lower Integrys Energy Groups business risk profile and provide funds to reduce debt. In 2007, Integrys Energy Services will develop a new landfill gas project, Winnebago Energy Center Development. Winnebago Energy Center Development is a 6.5 megawatt project near Rockford, Illinois, and will consist of installing gas cleanup equipment and engines to collect and burn landfill gas at the site to generate electricity. Integrys Energy Services will then sell the electricity in the PJM marketplace. The project is initially expected to cost approximately $9 million and, if we have initial project success, has the potential to expand to an 8 megawatt facility in 2009. In January 2007, Integrys Energy Services sold WPS Niagara Generation, LLC to a subsidiary of US Renewables Group, LLC for approximately $31 million. WPS Niagara Generation, LLC owned a 50 megawatt Niagara Falls generation facility located in the Niagara Mowhawk Frontier region in Niagara Falls, New York. The pre tax gain on the sale was approximately $25 million and was recorded in the first quarter of 2007. On July 26, 2006, Integrys Energy Services completed the sale of Sunbury Generation, LLC to Corona Power, LLC, for approximately $34 million. Sunbury Generations primary asset was the Sunbury generation facility located in Pennsylvania. The transaction resulted in a pre tax gain of approximately $20 million in 2006. In addition, approximately $13 million of cash tax benefits are expected to be accelerated over the next few years, depending on the use of the alternative minimum tax credits. Integrys Energy Services management had been evaluating Sunburys future since 2004 and after carefully reviewing alternatives and current business conditions, determined that the sale was the best alternative. 41 In April 2006, a subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group completed the sale of its one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC to Northern Border Partners, LP for $38.5 million. The transaction resulted in a pre tax gain of $6.2 million which was recorded in the second quarter of 2006. We believe the sale provides a good opportunity to redeploy the proceeds into other investment opportunities, providing value to our shareholders. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services sold WPS ESI Gas Storage, LLC, which owns a natural gas storage field located in the Kimball Township, St. Clair County, Michigan, for approximately $20 million and recognized a pre tax gain of $9.0 million in the second quarter of 2006. Integrys Energy Services utilized this facility primarily for structured wholesale natural gas transactions as natural gas storage spreads presented arbitrage opportunities. Integrys Energy Services was not actively marketing this facility for sale, but believed the price offered was above the value it would realize from continued ownership of the facility. We continue to evaluate alternatives for the sale of real estate holdings we have identified as no longer needed for our operations. Our risk management strategy, in addition to asset risk management, includes the management of market, credit, and operational risk through the normal course of business. Forward purchases and sales of electric capacity, energy, natural gas, and other commodities allow for opportunities to secure prices in a volatile energy market. Business Operations Our regulated and nonregulated businesses have distinct competencies and business strategies. They offer differing energy and energy related products and services, and experience a wide array of risks and challenges. Our regulated utilities derive revenues primarily from the purchase, production, distribution, and sale of electricity and the purchase, distribution, and sale of natural gas to retail customers. The regulated utilities also provide wholesale electric service to numerous utilities and cooperatives for resale. Our nonregulated business offers natural gas, electric, and alternate fuel supplies, as well as energy management and consulting services, to retail and wholesale customers in various areas of the United States and portions of Canada. The market risks and challenges of our business are discussed in Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Integrys Energy Services marketing and trading operations manage power and natural gas procurement as an integrated portfolio with its retail and wholesale sales commitments and sale of generation from power plants. The table below discloses future natural gas and electric sales volumes under contract at Integrys Energy Services as of December 31, 2006. Integrys Energy Services expects that its ultimate sales volumes in 2007 and beyond will exceed the volumes shown in the table below as it continues to seek growth opportunities and as existing customers who do not have long term contracts continue to buy their short term requirements from Integrys Energy Services. Forward Contracted Volumes at 12/31/2006 (1) 01/01/07 to 12/31/07 01/01/08 to 12/31/08 After 12/31/08 Wholesale sales volumes billion cubic feet 135.6 19.2 6.7 Retail sales volumes billion cubic feet 193.5 50.5 37.0 Total natural gas sales volumes 329.1 69.7 43.7 Wholesale sales volumes million kilowatt hours 30,564 11,096 8,036 Retail sales volumes million kilowatt hours 6,846 2,421 1,674 Total electric sales volumes 37,410 13,517 9,710 (1) These tables represent physical sales contracts for natural gas and electric power for delivery or settlement in future periods; however, there is a possibility that some of the contracted volumes reflected in the above table will be net settled. Management has no reason to believe that gross margins that will be generated by these contracts will vary significantly from those experienced historically. 42 For comparative purposes, the future natural gas and electric sales volumes under contract at December 31, 2005, are shown below. The actual electric and natural gas sales volumes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, and 2005 are disclosed within Results of Operations Integrys Energy Group, Integrys Energy Services Segment Operations below. Forward Contracted Volumes at 12/31/2005 (1) 01/01/06 to 12/31/06 01/01/07 to 12/31/07 After 12/31/07 Wholesale sales volumes billion cubic feet 107.3 13.2 4.3 Retail sales volumes billion cubic feet 171.1 39.7 40.3 Total natural gas sales volumes 278.4 52.9 44.6 Wholesale sales volumes million kilowatt hours 13,240 4,144 3,160 Retail sales volumes million kilowatt hours 1,962 391 126 Total electric sales volumes 15,202 4,535 3,286 (1) This table represents physical sales contracts for natural gas and electric power for delivery or settlement in future periods; however, there is a possibility that some of the contracted volumes reflected in the above table could be net settled. Both retail and wholesale forward natural gas volumes under contract have increased as of December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. The increase in retail natural gas volumes under contract was driven by lower natural gas prices providing opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to enter into supply contracts with customers in existing markets. Increased volatility in natural gas prices and high natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas) increased the profitability of natural gas transactions, driving the increase in wholesale natural gas sales volumes under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Wholesale electric volumes under contract increased significantly at December 31, 2006. The increase in wholesale electric sales volumes was mostly related to the continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services wholesale electric business, with a focus on physical, customer based purchase and sale agreements in areas where it has market expertise. The emphasis Integrys Energy Services is placing on its originated wholesale customer electric business is producing encouraging results and, as a result, Integrys Energy Services has recently entered into numerous contracts to provide electricity to wholesale customers in the future. Retail electric sales volumes under contract have also increased at December 31, 2006. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services expanded its retail electric product offering in Illinois, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Texas. Integrys Energy Services previously did not offer retail electric products, or offered few products, to these areas and expects to continue to build retail electric sales in these markets by continuing to attract new customers. Integrys Energy Services employs credit policies to mitigate its exposure to credit risk. As a result of these credit policies, Integrys Energy Services has not experienced significant write offs from its large wholesale counterparties to date. The table below summarizes Integrys Energy Services wholesale counterparty credit exposure, categorized by maturity date, as of December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services had exposure with one investment grade counterparty that was more than 10% of net exposure. Net exposure with this counterparty was $51.7 million and is included in the table below. 43 Counterparty Rating (Millions) (1) Exposure (2) Exposure Less Than 1 Year Exposure 1 to 3 Years Exposure 4 to 5 years Investment grade regulated utility $ 84.1 $ 64.0 $ 20.0 $ 0.1 Investment grade other 252.6 200.6 26.7 25.3 Non investment grade regulated utility Non investment grade other Non rated regulated utility (3) 1.5 1.5 Non rated other (3) 88.4 69.0 19.1 0.3 Exposure $ 426.6 $ 335.1 $ 65.8 $ 25.7 (1) The investment and non investment grade categories are determined by publicly available credit ratings of the counterparty or the rating of any guarantor, whichever is higher. Investment grade counterparties are those with a senior unsecured Moodys rating of Baa3 or above or a Standard & Poors rating of BBB or above. (2) Exposure considers netting of accounts receivable and accounts payable where netting agreements are in place as well as netting mark to market exposure. Exposure is before consideration of collateral from counterparties. Collateral, in the form of cash and letters of credit, received from counterparties totaled $99.7 million at December 31, 2006, $63.8 million from investment grade counterparties, and $35.9 million from non rated counterparties. (3) Non rated counterparties include stand alone companies, as well as unrated subsidiaries of rated companies without parental credit support. These counterparties are subject to an internal credit review process. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP 2006 Compared with 2005 Integrys Energy Group Overview Integrys Energy Groups 2006 and 2005 results of operations are shown in the following table: Integrys Energy Groups Results (Millions, except share amounts) 2006 2005 Change Income available for common shareholders $ 155.8 $ 157.4 (1.0 %) Basic earnings per share $ 3.68 $ 4.11 (10.5 %) Diluted earnings per share $ 3.67 $ 4.07 (9.8 %) Income available for common shareholders was $155.8 million ($3.67 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $157.4 million ($4.07 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2005. Significant factors impacting the change in earnings and earnings per share were as follows (and are discussed in more detail thereafter): 44 Electric utility earnings increased $21.3 million, from $64.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $85.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Fuel and purchased power costs that were less than what was recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), contributed an estimated $14 million after tax, year over year increase in earnings. In addition, a PSCW ruling, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage as well as a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets in 2005. The write off of these regulatory assets in 2005 resulted in an after tax reduction in earnings in 2005 of approximately $8 million. The retail electric rate increases at both WPSC and UPPCO also had a positive year over year impact on earnings. Prior to its 2006 rate increase, UPPCO did not have a rate increase since 2002. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006, compared to 2005, which had an estimated $9 million year over year negative after tax impact on electric utility earnings. Results from natural gas utility operations decreased $15.5 million, from earnings of $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to a net loss of $2.3 million in 2006. A combined net loss of approximately $11 million related to the results of operations of MGUC (natural gas distribution operations acquired on April 1, 2006) and MERC (natural gas distribution operations acquired on July 1, 2006). Included in the net loss incurred by MGUC and MERC were $11.8 million ($7.1 million after tax) of external pre tax transition costs that were incurred by these natural gas utilities. The net loss recognized at MGUC and MERC in excess of transition costs incurred can be attributed to not owning these operations during the 2006 heating season (from January through March) and warmer than normal weather conditions during the last few months of 2006. From the acquisition date through December 31, 2006, actual heating degree days were 13.9% and 7.3% below normal for MGUC and MERC, respectively. Earnings at WPSCs natural gas utility also decreased approximately $4 million, driven by unfavorable weather conditions and customer conservation efforts. Integrys Energy Services earnings decreased $1.8 million, from $74.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $72.3 million for the same period in 2006. Lower earnings were driven by an $11.0 million ($6.6 million after tax) increase in interest expense due to higher working capital requirements primarily related to growth in Integrys Energy Services natural gas operations, a $10.6 million ($6.4 million after tax) increase in miscellaneous expenses (primarily related to increased tons procured from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility and the fact that Integrys Energy Services received no royalty payments from this investment in 2006), and a $4.2 million after tax decrease in income from discontinued operations. These factors were partially offset by a $14.4 million ($8.6 million after tax) increase in margin (including an $11.1 million pre tax decrease in gains on derivative instruments used to protect the value of Section 29/45K tax credits), a $6.7 million ($4.0 million after tax) decrease in operating expenses (primarily related to the recognition of a $9.0 million pre tax gain on the sale of Integrys Energy Services Kimball storage field in the second quarter of 2006), and a $3.4 million increase in Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility. See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed analysis of how Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility impacted results of operations. Results from Holding Company and Other Segment Operations decreased $5.6 million, from earnings of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to earnings of $0.3 million for the same period in 2006. External transition expenses of $2.2 million were recorded in 2006 related to consulting fees in conjunction with our merger with Peoples Energy. 45 Diluted earnings per share was impacted by the items discussed above as well as an increase of 3.7 million shares (9.6%) in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. Integrys Energy Group issued 1.9 million shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 and also issued 2.7 million shares of common stock in May 2006 in order to settle its forward equity agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. Additional shares were also issued under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock based employee benefit plans. Overview of Utility Operations In 2006, utility operations included (1) the electric utility segment, consisting of the electric operations of WPSC and UPPCO, and (2) the gas utility segment, consisting of the natural gas operations of WPSC, MGUC, and MERC. Electric Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Electric Utility Year Ended December 31, Segment Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 1,099.4 $ 1,037.1 6.0 % Fuel and purchased power costs 551.0 444.2 24.0 % Margins $ 548.4 $ 592.9 (7.5 %) Sales in kilowatt hours Residential 3,144.8 3,127.4 0.6 % Commercial and industrial 8,645.2 8,641.8 % Wholesale 4,093.1 3,849.2 6.3 % Other 42.2 41.7 1.2 % Total sales in kilowatt hours 15,925.3 15,660.1 1.7 % Weather WPSC Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Electric utility revenue increased $62.3 million (6.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, largely due to the approved 2006 electric rate increases for WPSC and UPPCO retail electric customers (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these rate increases) and rate increases for WPSCs wholesale customers resulting from the formula rate mechanism in place for these customers. Electric sales volumes also increased 1.7%, primarily related to a 6.3% increase in sales volumes to wholesale customers due to higher demand and new wholesale contracts. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, partially offset the increases discussed above. The electric utility margin decreased $44.5 million (7.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The decrease in the electric utility margin was driven by a $48.7 million (9.0%) decrease in WPSCs electric margin, primarily related to the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement, partially offset by an approximate $4 million increase in UPPCOs margin (driven by its first retail electric rate increase since 2002). Excluding the $54.2 million increase in fixed payments made to Dominion Energy Kewaunee during the year ended December 31, 2006, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $5.5 million, driven by the retail electric and wholesale rate increases (discussed above). In addition, fuel and purchased power costs were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), which had an estimated $23 million positive year over year impact on margin. The margin was also positively impacted by higher wholesale electric sales volumes, driven by higher demand from existing customers and new wholesale 46 customer contracts. These increases were partially offset by a $70.8 million decrease in 2006 margin related to the refund to retail customers and the accrual for the refund to wholesale customers of a portion of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in margin related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in operating and maintenance expense as explained below and, therefore, did not have an impact on earnings. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons also negatively impacted margin by an estimated $14 million. Gas Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Year Ended December 31, Gas Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 676.9 $ 522.0 29.7 % Purchased natural gas costs 493.8 397.4 24.3 % Margins $ 183.1 $ 124.6 47.0 % Throughput in therms Residential 351.5 241.6 45.5 % Commercial and industrial 190.6 134.7 41.5 % Interruptible 40.1 36.1 11.1 % Interdepartmental 27.6 70.8 (61.0 %) Transport 657.5 344.0 91.1 % Total sales in therms 1,267.3 827.2 53.2 % Weather WPSC Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Natural gas utility revenue increased $154.9 million (29.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, due to the acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan by MGUC on April 1, 2006, and the acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in Minnesota by MERC on July 1, 2006. These acquisitions contributed approximately $233 million to natural gas utility revenue and approximately 541 million therms to natural gas throughput volumes during the year ended December 31, 2006. WPSCs natural gas utility revenue was $443.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $522.0 million in 2005. Lower natural gas revenues at WPSC were driven by a 12.2% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes, primarily related to a 61.0% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes to the electric utility for electric generation and a 9.2% decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers. The decrease in throughput volumes to the electric utility resulted from a decrease in the need for the electric utility to run its natural gas fired peaking generation units during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, and from higher dispatch of these peaking generation units by MISO in 2005 for reliability purposes. The decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers was also driven by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005, as well as customer conservation efforts. Particularly at the beginning of 2006, customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2006, natural gas prices were actually 1.4% lower on a per unit basis, compared to 2005, resulting from a large decline in the price of natural gas in the second half of 2006, also contributing to the decrease in natural gas revenue. Partially offsetting the decrease in WPSCs natural gas utility revenue was the 2006 natural gas rate increase at WPSC (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to this rate increase). The natural gas utility margin increased $58.5 million (47.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. The combined margin provided by MGUC and MERC was approximately $59 million, while WPSCs natural gas utility margin decreased $0.6 million. As discussed in more detail above, a decrease in throughput volumes to higher margin residential and commercial and industrial customers was partially offset by the natural gas rate increase. The decrease in natural gas 47 volumes sold to the electric utility did not have a significant impact on WPSCs natural gas utility margin as sales to the electric utility have very low margins. Overview of Integrys Energy Services Operations Integrys Energy Services offers natural gas, electric, and alternative fuel supplies, as well as asset management and consulting services, to retail and wholesale customers in the Midwest and Northeastern United States, Texas, and portions of Canada adjacent to the markets Integrys Energy Services serves in the United States. Wholesale electric products and services are offered in developed markets throughout the United States. Integrys Energy Services also owns several merchant generation plants, primarily in the Midwest and Northeastern United States and adjacent portions of Canada. Operationally, 2006 was very productive for Integrys Energy Services. Energy prices fell considerably in the latter half of the year, which created opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to further penetrate existing markets and sign up customers in new markets, adding value to Integrys Energy Services retail electric and retail natural gas portfolios. Through the use of derivative instruments and other supply contracts, Integrys Energy Services was able to secure margin on future sales to these customers, which will be recognized in future periods. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) 2006 2005 Change Nonregulated revenues $ 5,159.1 $ 5,314.9 (2.9 %) Nonregulated cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power 4,976.7 5,146.9 (3.3 %) Margins $ 182.4 $ 168.0 8.6 % Margin Detail Electric and other margins (other margins mostly relate to mark to market and realized losses on oil options of $2.4 million during 2006, compared to mark to market and realized gains on oil hedges of $8.7 million during 2005) $ 61.2 $ 106.4 (42.5 %) Natural gas margins $ 121.2 $ 61.6 96.8 % Gross volumes (includes volumes both physically delivered and net settled) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours 58,794.9 44,778.3 31.3 % Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours 6,554.1 8,021.0 (18.3 %) Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet 402.2 338.1 19.0 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet 314.5 276.6 13.7 % Physical volumes (includes only transactions settled physically for the periods shown) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 968.2 1,515.6 (36.1 %) Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 4,565.6 6,594.5 (30.8 %) Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 373.5 327.8 13.9 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 264.0 227.7 15.9 % * Represents gross physical volumes Integrys Energy Services revenue decreased $155.8 million (2.9%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, primarily related to a decrease in both physical retail and wholesale electric sales volumes and a decrease in energy prices during the latter half of 2006. The decrease in physical retail electric sales volumes was driven by a decrease in retail electric sales volumes in Ohio and Michigan. Integrys Energy Services retail electric aggregation sales in Ohio ended on December 31, 2005, with the expiration of Integrys Energy Services contracts with Ohio aggregation customers. Regarding Michigan retail electric operations, Integrys Energy Services had many customers return to their utility supplier beginning in 2005 and continuing into 2006 as a result of high wholesale energy prices and utility tariff changes, which significantly lowered the savings that customers could obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. In other areas, lower wholesale energy prices in the latter half of 48 2006 allowed Integrys Energy Services to sign up a significant number of new retail customers, which will increase sales and contribute to margin in later years. The lower prices also increase the likelihood that Integrys Energy Services may be able to re contract some of its Michigan retail electric business. The decrease in physically settled wholesale electric sales volumes was driven by a trend toward more financially settled transactions in 2006, compared to 2005. Integrys Energy Services margins increased $14.4 million (8.6%), from $168.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $182.4 million for 2006. Many items contributed to the year over year net increase in margin and, as a result, a table has been provided to summarize significant changes. Variances included under "Other significant items" in the table below are generally related to the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions. All variances depicted in the table are discussed in more detail below the table. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) Increase (Decrease) in Margin in 2006 Compared to 2005 Electric and other margins Realized gains on structured origination contracts $ 6.3 Realized retail electric margin (2.9) All other wholesale electric operations 4.4 Other significant items: Oil option activity (11.1) Retail mark to market activity (27.3) Liquidation of an electric supply contract in 2005 (14.6) Net decrease in electric and other margins (45.2) Natural gas margins Realized natural gas margins 32.2 Other significant items: Mass market supply options (8.4) Spot to forward differential 5.4 Other mark to market activity 30.4 Net increase in natural gas margins 59.6 Net increase in Integrys Energy Services margin $14.4 Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins decreased $45.2 million (42.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The following items were the most significant contributors to the net change in Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins: Realized gains on structured origination contracts Integrys Energy Services electric and other margin increased $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, due to realized gains from origination contracts involving the sale of energy through structured transactions to wholesale customers in the Midwest and Northeastern United States. These origination contracts were not in place in 2005. Integrys Energy Services continues to expand its wholesale origination capabilities with a focus on physical, customer based purchase and sale agreements in areas where it has market expertise. Integrys Energy Services provided products to large origination customers desiring to take advantage of falling energy prices. Realized retail electric margin The realized margin from retail electric operations decreased $2.9 million, driven by an $8.2 million decrease in margin from retail electric operations in Ohio and a $3.7 million decrease in margin from retail electric operations in northern Maine. These decreases were partially offset by a $4.4 million increase in margin from retail electric operations in Michigan, a $2.8 million increase in margin from retail electric operations in New York, and a positive margin contribution from retail electric operations in Texas and Illinois. Integrys Energy Services retail electric aggregation sales in Ohio ended on December 31, 2005, with the expiration of Integrys Energy Services contracts with Ohio aggregation customers. Integrys Energy Services remains prepared to offer future retail electric service in Ohio as the regulatory climate and market conditions allow. The decrease in margin from operations in northern Maine was driven by higher supply costs 49 in part tied to diesel fuel prices. A portion of the electricity purchased by Integrys Energy Services to supply customers in northern Maine is derived from burning wood chips. The cost to transport wood chips, as well as the operating costs of the machine utilized to make the wood chips, were negatively impacted by high diesel fuel prices. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services shared in this diesel fuel exposure with the generation supplier. Integrys Energy Services was awarded a new contract to serve customers in northern Maine that began on January 1, 2007. Fuel sharing was not contemplated in any of the related energy supply contracts that will be utilized to serve northern Maine load in 2007. The increase in margin from retail electric operations in Michigan was driven by the elimination of the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment (SECA) effective March 31, 2006. See Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to SECA. Integrys Energy Services began developing a product offering in the Texas retail electric market in 2005. Entry into Texas, with its thriving market structure, provides Integrys Energy Services with an opportunity to leverage the infrastructure and capability it developed. Integrys Energy Services started to deliver power to these customers in July 2006. Integrys Energy Services continues to increase both its customer base (by contracting new enrollments) and volumes in the Texas retail electric market. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services began offering retail electric products to large commercial and industrial customers in Illinois. In 2005, Integrys Energy Services was only offering natural gas products and energy management services to customers in Illinois. All other wholesale electric operations A $4.4 million increase in margin from other wholesale electric operations was driven by an increase in net realized and unrealized gains related to trading activities utilized to optimize the value of Integrys Energy Services merchant generation fleet and customer supply portfolios. As part of its trading activities, Integrys Energy Services seeks to generate profits from the volatility of the price of electricity, by purchasing or selling various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts, options, financial transmission rights, and capacity contracts) in established wholesale markets (primarily in the northeastern portion of the United States where Integrys Energy Services has market expertise), under risk management policies set by management and approved by Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors. Integrys Energy Services also seeks to maximize the value of its generation and customer supply portfolios to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from these assets through the use of various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts, options, financial transmission rights, and capacity contracts). Period by period variability in the margin contributed by Integrys Energy Services optimization strategies and trading activities is expected due to constantly changing market conditions and differences in the timing of gains and losses recognized on derivative and non derivative contracts, as required by generally accepted accounting principles. Using a diverse mix of products and markets, combined with disciplined execution and exit strategies, has allowed Integrys Energy Services to consistently generate economic value and earnings from these activities while staying within the value at risk (VaR) limits authorized by Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors. For more information on VaR, see "Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Oil option activity A decrease in the fair value of derivative instruments utilized to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006 and 2007 contributed $11.1 million to the decrease in its electric and other margin. The derivative instruments have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value are recorded currently in earnings. The decrease in the fair value of these instruments in 2006 reflects declining oil prices. Declining prices are generally favorable as they improve the overall profitability of the unhedged portion of our synthetic fuel operations, and present opportunities to produce more synthetic fuel while mitigating the risk of future oil price increases through the use of derivative instruments. The benefit from Section 29/45K federal tax credits during a year is primarily based upon estimated annual synthetic fuel production levels, the ability to sell the synthetic fuel that is produced, annual taxable earnings, and any impact annual oil prices may have on the realization of Section 29/45K federal tax credits. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in different years, compared to any tax credit phase outs that may be recognized. For more information on Section 29/45K federal tax credits, see Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies." 50 Retail mark to market activity Retail mark to market activity contributed a $27.3 million decrease to the electric and other margin in 2006, compared to 2005. In 2005, $2.6 million of mark to market gains were recognized on retail electric customer supply contracts, compared to $24.7 million of mark to market losses recognized on these contracts in 2006. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to customer supply contracts (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the customer sales contracts, which are not considered derivative instruments. These mark to market gains and losses will reverse as the related customer sales contracts settle. Due to the mix of contracts that require mark to market accounting and those that do not, Integrys Energy Services generally experiences mark to market losses on supply contracts in periods of declining wholesale prices and mark to market gains in periods of increasing wholesale prices. Declining prices are generally favorable as they increase Integrys Energy Services ability to offer customers contracts that are both favorably priced and lower than the prices offered by regulated utilities, but can cause short term volatility in earnings. Liquidation of an electric supply contract in 2005 In the fourth quarter of 2005, an electricity supplier exiting the wholesale market in Maine requested that Integrys Energy Services liquidate a firm contract to buy power in 2006 and 2007. At that time, Integrys Energy Services recognized an $8.2 million gain related to the liquidation of the contract and entered into a new contract with another supplier for firm power in 2006 and 2007 to supply its customers in Maine. The cost to purchase power under the new contract is more than the cost under the liquidated contract. As a result of the termination of this contract, purchased power costs to serve customers in Maine were $6.4 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2006, and will be slightly higher than the original contracted amount in 2007. The liquidation of this contract had a $14.6 million negative impact on the year over year change in the electric and other margin, resulting from higher purchased power costs recorded under the new contract in 2006, compared to a gain recognized on the liquidation of the original contract in 2005. Realized natural gas margins Realized natural gas margins increased $32.2 million, from $60.4 million in 2005 to $92.6 million in 2006. The majority of this increase, $26.6 million, related to an increase in retail natural gas margin, driven by continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services Canadian retail operations (including higher sales volumes to existing customers as well as new customer additions). Margins from retail natural gas operations in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Illinois also increased, as Integrys Energy Services was able to better manage supply to these customers, aided by favorable market conditions. The remaining $5.6 million increase in realized natural gas margins related to wholesale operations, driven by an increase in structured wholesale natural gas transactions attributed to an increase in the volatility of the price of natural gas as well as high natural gas storage spreads during most of 2006. Mass market supply options Options utilized to manage supply costs for mass market customers, which expire in varying months through May 2007, had an $8.4 million negative year over year impact on Integrys Energy Services natural gas margin. In 2006, these options had a $5.5 million negative impact on Integrys Energy Services natural gas margin (commensurate with declining natural gas prices), compared to a $2.9 million positive impact on margin in 2005 (commensurate with higher natural gas prices in the latter half of 2005). These contracts are utilized to reduce the risk of price movements, customer migration, and changes in consumer consumption patterns. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the options (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the customer contracts. Full requirements natural gas contracts with Integrys Energy Services customers are not considered derivatives and, therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on these contracts until settlement. The option mark to market gains and losses will reverse as the related customer sales contracts settle. 51 Spot to forward differential The natural gas storage cycle (described in more detail below) accounted for a $5.4 million year over year increase in the natural gas margin (for the year ended December 31, 2006, the natural gas storage cycle had a $0.2 million positive impact on margin, compared with a $5.2 million negative impact on margin for the same period in 2005). Other mark to market activity Mark to market gains on derivatives not previously discussed totaling $34.0 million were recognized in 2006, compared to the recognition of $3.6 million of mark to market gains on other derivative instruments in 2005. A significant portion of the difference relates to changes in the fair market value of basis swaps utilized to mitigate market price risk associated with natural gas transportation contracts and certain natural gas sales contracts as well as swaps utilized to mitigate market price risk related to certain natural gas storage contracts. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the basis and other swaps (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the physical natural gas transportation contracts, the natural gas sales contracts, or the natural gas storage contracts (as these contracts are not considered derivative instruments). Therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on the transportation contracts, customer sales contracts, or natural gas storage contracts until physical settlement of these contracts occurs. Overview of Holding Company and Other Segment Operations Financial results at the Holding Company and Other segment decreased $5.6 million, from net income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to a net income of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, driven by a $12.9 million increase in pre tax interest expense (net of intercompany interest income) and a $9.2 million pre tax increase in operating expenses. Higher interest expense was driven by an increase in short term and long term borrowings required to fund the acquisition of natural gas operations in Michigan and Minnesota, and working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. The increase in operating expenses was primarily related to business expansion activities related to the merger with Peoples Energy. These items were partially offset by an increase in other income, driven by a $13.9 million increase in pre tax earnings from ATC (pre tax equity earnings from ATC increased to $39.0 million in 2006, from $25.1 million in 2005, a $6.2 million pre tax gain recognized from the 2006 sale of Integrys Energy Groups one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, partially offset by a decrease in pre tax gains recognized from land sales. 52 Operating Expenses Integrys Energy Groups Operating Expenses (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 503.7 $ 535.4 (5.9 %) Depreciation and decommissioning expense 106.1 142.3 (25.4 %) Taxes other than income 57.4 47.3 21.4 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses decreased $31.7 million (5.9%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The components of operating and maintenance expense are as follows: Operating and maintenance expense at the electric utility segment decreased $85.1 million, from $362.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $277.2 million for the same period in 2006, driven by the following: Partial amortization of the regulatory liability recorded for WPSCs obligation to refund proceeds received from the liquidation of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale electric ratepayers contributed $70.8 million to the decrease in operating expenses in 2006, compared to 2005. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in operating expense related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in margin (as discussed in "Electric Utility Segment Operations," above). Operating and maintenance related to the Kewaunee nuclear plant decreased approximately $17 million, driven by the sale of this facility in July 2005. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense related to Kewaunee did not have a significant impact on income available for common shareholders as WPSC is still purchasing power from this facility in the same amount as its original ownership interest. The cost of the power is included as a component of utility cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the 2005 sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits also decreased in part due to the sale of Kewaunee in 2005. Software amortization increased $5.4 million, driven by the late 2005 implementation of a new customer billing system. Excluding Kewaunee, maintenance expenses at the electric utility segment were up $4.9 million. Planned maintenance was required on certain combustion turbines, and maintenance expense related to electric distribution assets also increased. Electric transmission expense increased $4.1 million. Operating and maintenance expense at the natural gas utility segment increased $54.0 million, from $71.3 million in 2005, to $125.3 million in 2006. The increase in operating and maintenance expense at the natural gas utility segment was driven by $56.6 million of combined operating and maintenance expense incurred by MGUC and MERC. Of the $56.6 million of operating and maintenance expense incurred by MGUC and MERC during the year ended December 31, 2006, $11.8 million related to external transition expenses, primarily for the start up of outsourcing activities and other legal and 53 consulting fees. Partially offsetting the increase in operating and maintenance expenses related to MGUC and MERC, operating expenses related to WPSCs natural gas operations decreased, driven by decreases in various employee benefit related expenses. Operating and maintenance expenses at Integrys Energy Services decreased $6.9 million, from $91.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $85.0 million for the same period in 2006, driven primarily by a $9.0 million pre tax gain recognized on the sale of Integrys Energy Services Kimball storage field in the second quarter of 2006. This gain was partially offset by higher payroll and benefit costs related to an increase in the number of employees as a result of continued business expansion activities. The remaining increase in operating and maintenance expense relates to Holding Company and Other Segment operations and was driven by legal and consulting expenses related to business expansion activities, primarily attributed to our merger with Peoples Energy. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense decreased $36.2 million (25.4%), for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, as follows: (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Electric Utility Segment $ 66.0 $ 113.4 (41.8 %) Gas Utility Segment 28.7 17.4 64.9 % Integrys Energy Services 10.7 11.2 (4.5 %) Holding Company and Other Segment 0.7 0.3 133.3 % The $47.4 million year over year decrease in depreciation expense at the electric utility segment was driven by approximately $41 million of decommissioning expense that was recorded during 2005, compared to no decommissioning expense recorded in 2006, and a $10.2 million decrease in depreciation expense resulting from the sale of Kewaunee in July 2005. Subsequent to the sale of Kewaunee, decommissioning expense is no longer recorded. In 2005, realized gains on decommissioning trust assets were substantially offset by decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice (see analysis of "Other Income (Expense)" below). An increase in depreciation expense related to continued capital investment at the electric utility partially offset the overall decrease in depreciation and decommissioning expense. The $11.3 million year over year increase in depreciation expense at the gas utility segment was driven by a combined $10.4 million of depreciation expense recorded by MGUC and MERC for the year ended December 31, 2006. Continued capital investment at WPSCs natural gas utility also contributed to the increase in depreciation expense. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased $10.1 million (21.4%), for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, as follows: (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Electric Utility Segment $ 41.6 $ 38.5 8.1 % Gas Utility Segment 11.8 6.1 93.4 % Integrys Energy Services 3.7 2.4 54.2 % Holding Company and Other Segment 0.3 0.3 % The increase in taxes other than income was driven by $4.8 million of taxes other than income recorded by MGUC and MERC, primarily related to property taxes, and a $3.1 million increase in taxes other than income recorded by the electric utility, driven by an increase in gross receipts tax that resulted from an increase in electric utility revenue. 54 Other Income (Expense) Integrys Energy Groups Year Ended December 31, Other Income (Expense) (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Miscellaneous income $ 42.2 $ 86.2 (51.0 %) Interest expense (99.2 ) (62.0 ) 60.0 % Minority interest 3.8 4.5 (15.6 %) Other (expense) income $ (53.2 ) $ 28.7 Miscellaneous Income Miscellaneous income decreased $44.0 million (51.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. The decrease in miscellaneous income was driven by approximately $41 million of realized gains on nuclear decommissioning trust assets recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to these realized gains was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in decommissioning expense in 2005. Integrys Energy Services equity investment in a synthetic fuel facility contributed an additional $11.3 million decrease in miscellaneous income, driven by additional synthetic fuel production procured in 2006 from our partners in this facility (see Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility). Finally, pre tax gains recognized on land sales decreased $8.0 million, from $10.3 million in 2005 to $2.3 million in 2006. These decreases were partially offset by a $13.9 million increase in pre tax equity earnings from ATC and a $6.2 million pre tax gain recognized from the sale of Integrys Energy Groups one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $37.2 million (60.0%) in 2006, compared to 2005, due primarily to an increase in the average amount of both short term and long term debt outstanding and higher average short term interest rates. During 2006, borrowings were primarily utilized to fund the purchase of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, the construction of Weston 4, and for working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 22.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 20.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in the effective tax rate was driven by a higher effective state tax rate, primarily related to the acquisition of regulated natural gas operations in Minnesota and also due to a loss in value of various state net operating loss carryforwards. Partially offsetting these decreases, Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized increased $3.4 million in 2006, compared to 2005. We recognized the tax benefit of $29.5 million of Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006, compared to $26.1 million in 2005, from the production and sale of synthetic fuel. Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized increased despite an anticipated 33% phase out due to additional tons of synthetic fuel we were able to procure from our partners in the synthetic fuel facility, who curtailed their production in 2006 due to high oil prices. Integrys Energy Services economically hedged the risk associated with this additional production. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased $4.2 million, from after tax income of $11.5 million in 2005 to after tax income of $7.3 million in 2006. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to Sunbury decreased $2.2 million, from income of $9.1 million in 2005 to income of $6.9 million in 2006. The decrease was driven by a $39.1 million ($23.5 million after tax) decrease in gross margin, partially offset by a $12.5 million after tax gain recognized on the sale of Sunbury, and a $10.4 million ($6.2 million after tax) decrease in interest expense. The decrease in gross margin at Sunbury was due in part to the fact that Sunbury was available for operation 55 during the entire year ended December 31, 2005, compared to a partial year of operations in 2006 as this facility was sold in July 2006. Gross margin also decreased as a result of the higher cost of fuel and emission allowances combined with lower energy prices prior to the sale in 2006, compared to the comparable period in 2005. Since the sale of its allocated emission allowances in the second quarter of 2005, Sunbury purchased emission allowances required for operation at market prices. The decrease in interest expense was driven by $9.1 million of interest expense recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the termination of an interest rate swap pertaining to Sunburys non recourse debt obligation, as well as the recognition of interest expense on the non recourse debt prior to the restructuring of this debt in the second quarter of 2005. The restructuring of the Sunbury debt to a Integrys Energy Group obligation in June 2005 triggered the recognition of interest expense equivalent to the mark to market value of the swap at the date of restructuring. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to WPS Niagara Generation, LLC decreased $2.0 million, from income of $2.4 million in 2005 to income of $0.4 million in 2006. The decrease in income generated from WPS Niagara Generation was mostly due to a decrease in the average price per megawatt sold from this facility in 2006 compared to 2005. For more information on discontinued operations, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principles In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. This Interpretation clarifies when companies are required to recognize conditional legal asset retirement obligations that result from the acquisition, construction, and normal operation of a long lived asset. Because the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations has been interpreted differently between companies, SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, had been inconsistently applied in practice. The adoption of Interpretation No. 47 at Integrys Energy Services on December 31, 2005, resulted in a negative $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005, related to recording a liability for asbestos remediation at certain of Integrys Energy Services generation plants. For the utility segments of Integrys Energy Group, we concluded it was probable that any differences between expenses under Interpretation No. 47 and expenses currently recovered through customer rates will be recoverable in future customer rates. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement had no impact on the utility segments income. 2005 Compared with 2004 Integrys Energy Group Overview Integrys Energy Groups 2005 and 2004 results of operations are shown in the following table: Integrys Energy Groups Results (Millions, except share amounts) 2005 2004 Change Income available for common shareholders $ 157.4 $ 139.7 12.7 % Basic earnings per share $ 4.11 $ 3.74 9.9 % Diluted earnings per share $ 4.07 $ 3.72 9.4 % Income available for common shareholders was $157.4 million ($4.07 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $139.7 million ($3.72 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2004. Significant factors impacting the change in earnings and earnings per share are as follows (and are discussed in more detail below): 56 Integrys Energy Services earnings increased $32.4 million (77.7%), for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Higher earnings were driven by the $37.9 million increase in margin, partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses, a $24.3 million after tax increase in results from discontinued operations, a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits, and the negative impact of a $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle recorded in 2005. Earnings at the Holding Company and Other segment decreased $6 million in 2005, compared to 2004, driven by lower gains from land sales, an income tax benefit recognized in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR, and an increase in interest expense. These items were partially offset by higher equity earnings from our investment in ATC. Electric utility earnings decreased $4.6 million (6.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Electric utility earnings were negatively impacted by fuel and purchased power costs that were $13.7 million in excess of what WPSC was allowed to recover from customers due to inefficiencies in the fuel recovery process ($10 million related to retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers). In addition, the PSCWs ruling in the 2006 rate case, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage and a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. The change in diluted earnings per share was also impacted by an increase of 1.1 million shares in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Additional shares were issued in 2005 under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock based employee benefit plans. Integrys Energy Groups issuance of 1.9 million additional shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 also contributed to the increase in the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Overview of Utility Operations Income available for common shareholders attributable to the electric utility segment was $64.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $68.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Income available for common shareholders attributable to the gas utility segment was $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Electric Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Electric Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 1,037.1 $ 896.6 15.7 % Fuel and purchased power costs 444.2 295.5 50.3 % Margins $ 592.9 $ 601.1 (1.4 %) Sales in kilowatt hours 15,660.1 14,465.7 8.3 % Electric utility revenue increased $140.5 million (15.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility revenue increased largely due to an approved electric rate increase for WPSCs Wisconsin retail customers and an increase in electric sales volumes. On December 21, 2004, the PSCW approved a retail electric rate increase of $60.7 million (8.6%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was required primarily to recover increased costs related to fuel and purchased power, the construction of the Weston 4 power plant, and benefit costs. Electric sales volumes increased 8.3%, primarily due to significantly warmer weather during the 2005 cooling season, 57 compared to the same period in 2004, and new power sales agreements that were entered into with wholesale customers. As a result of the warm weather, both WPSC and UPPCO set all time records for peak electric demand in the second and third quarters of 2005. The electric utility margin decreased $8.2 million (1.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in margin can be attributed to a $9.0 million (1.6%) decrease in WPSCs electric margin, which was largely driven by the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Prior to the sale of Kewaunee, only nuclear fuel expense was reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. Subsequent to the sale, all payments to Dominion for power purchased from Kewaunee are reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. These include both variable payments for energy delivered and fixed payments. As a result of the sale, WPSC no longer incurs operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and decommissioning expense, or interest expense for Kewaunee. Excluding the $43.2 million of fixed payments made to Dominion in 2005, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $34.2 million compared to 2004. This increase in margin was primarily related to the approved 2005 retail electric rate increase discussed above and the warm summer weather conditions, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs associated with high natural gas prices and the PSCWs disallowance of certain costs in its decision on the 2006 rate case for WPSC (these costs were previously approved for deferral). Fuel and purchased power costs incurred in 2005 exceeded the amount recovered from ratepayers by $13.7 million (of which $10 million related to Wisconsin retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers), negatively impacting margin. The increase in fuel and purchased power costs resulted primarily from the destruction of certain natural gas production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico by hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005, driving up the per unit cost of natural gas used in generation. The quantity of power generated from WPSCs natural gas fired units was also up 162% over the prior year, driven by the warm summer weather conditions experienced during 2005, increased dispatch by the MISO for reliability purposes, and purchases through a purchase power agreement from the Fox Energy Center (which began operating in June 2005). Certain costs related to the MISO were approved for deferral. Authorization was requested from the PSCW to defer increased natural gas costs related to the hurricanes, but this request was denied, leaving the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism as the only option for recovery. However, because of the way the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism works, the increase in fuel and purchased power costs (primarily related to the combination of rising natural gas prices caused by the hurricanes and the increase in natural gas fired generation) were essentially unrecoverable since they were incurred late in the year. To mitigate the risk of unrecoverable fuel costs in 2006 due to market price volatility, WPSC employed risk management techniques pursuant to its risk policy approved by the PSCW, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of $5.5 million of increased fuel and purchased power costs related to an extended outage at Kewaunee in 2004, resulting in this deferral being written off in the fourth quarter of 2005. Electric utility earnings decreased $4.6 million (6.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The decrease in earnings resulted from the high fuel and purchased power costs that WPSC was unable to recover from its Wisconsin retail and wholesale customers, the PSCWs disallowance of previously deferred costs related to Kewaunee, and an increase in operating and maintenance expenses. Gas Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Gas Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 522.0 $ 420.9 24.0 % Purchased natural gas costs 397.4 301.9 31.6 % Margins $ 124.6 $ 119.0 4.7 % Throughput in therms 827.2 801.3 3.2 % 58 Gas utility revenue increased $101.1 million (24.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Gas utility revenue increased primarily as a result of an increase in the per unit cost of natural gas, a natural gas rate increase, and higher natural gas throughput volumes. Natural gas costs increased 24.6% (on a per unit basis) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Following regulatory practice, WPSC passes changes in the total cost of natural gas on to customers through a purchased gas adjustment clause, as allowed by the PSCW and the MPSC. The PSCW issued an order authorizing a natural gas rate increase of $5.6 million (1.1%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was primarily driven by higher benefit costs and the cost of natural gas distribution system improvements. Natural gas throughput volumes increased 3.2%, driven by an increase in interdepartmental sales from the natural gas utility to the electric utility as a result of increased generation from combustion turbines. Higher natural gas throughput volumes from interdepartmental sales to the electric utility were partially offset by lower natural gas throughput volumes to residential customers, driven by milder weather conditions in 2005, compared to 2004. WPSC also believes customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. The natural gas utility margin increased $5.6 million (4.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The higher natural gas utility margin was largely due to the rate increase mentioned above. The increase in interdepartmental sales volumes to WPSCs electric utility also had a positive impact on the natural gas margin. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. Overview of Integrys Energy Services Operations Income available for common shareholders attributable to Integrys Energy Services was $74.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $41.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) 2005 2004 Change Nonregulated revenues $ 5,314.9 $ 3,599.5 47.7 % Nonregulated cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power 5,146.9 3,469.4 48.4 % Margins $ 168.0 $ 130.1 29.1 % Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 327.8 235.4 39.3 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 227.7 276.7 (17.7 %) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 1,515.6 3,019.1 (49.8 %) Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 6,594.5 7,235.7 (8.9 %) * Represents gross physical volumes Revenues Integrys Energy Services revenue increased $1.7 billion (47.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Natural gas revenue increased $1.7 billion (54.8%), driven by a 46% increase in the average price of natural gas, higher natural gas throughput volumes in Canada, and an increase in structured natural gas transactions with wholesale customers. Electric revenue increased approximately $56 million, largely due to an $88 million increase in revenue from retail electric operations in New York, resulting from an increase in the per unit price of electricity sold and a 115% increase in sales volumes (the New York business had its first full year of operation in 2005). Revenue also increased due to an increase in structured energy transactions. These items were partially offset by a $78.2 million decrease in wholesale electric revenue related to Integrys Energy Services prior participation in the New Jersey Basic Generation Services Program, which ended on May 31, 2004, and a $31.1 million decrease in revenue from retail electric operations in Michigan, driven by lower sales volumes in 2005. 59 Margins Integrys Energy Services margins increased $37.9 million (29.1%), from $130.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, to $168.0 million for 2005. Many items contributed to the year over year net increase in margin and, as a result, a table has been provided to summarize significant changes. Variances included under "Other significant items" in the table below are related to the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles and gains and losses that do not frequently occur in Integrys Energy Services business. All variances depicted in the table are discussed in more detail below. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) Increase (Decrease) in Margin in 2005 Compared to 2004 Electric and other margins Physical asset management $ 7.5 New York retail 3.0 Michigan retail (15.7 ) All other electric operations 21.1 Other significant items: Oil option activity 8.7 Liquidation of electric purchase contract 8.2 Net increase in electric and other margins 32.8 Natural gas margins Gas margins (principally Canada, Michigan, and Wisconsin retail markets) 6.1 Other significant items: Counterparty settlement 3.3 Unrealized gain on Ohio options 2.9 Spot to forward differential (7.2 ) Net increase in natural gas margins 5.1 Net increase in Integrys Energy Services margin $ 37.9 Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins increased $32.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the net change in Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins: Physical asset management Optimization strategies related to Integrys Energy Services generation facilities resulted in a $7.5 million increase in margin. The profitability and volume of transactions related to Integrys Energy Services optimization strategies were higher due to increased variability in the price of energy in 2005 compared to 2004. In the first quarter of 2004, Integrys Energy Services first implemented the portfolio optimization strategies to optimize the value of the merchant generation fleet to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from these assets through the use of various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts and options). New York retail The first full year of retail electric operations in New York (as discussed in "Revenues" above) contributed $3.0 million to the overall margin increase. Michigan retail The margin contributed by retail electric operations in Michigan decreased $15.7 million in 2005, compared to 2004. Higher transmission related charges resulting from the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment, which was implemented on December 1, 2004, and continued through March 2006, as ordered by the FERC, negatively impacted the margin from retail electric operations in Michigan. In addition, tariff changes granted to the regulated utilities in Michigan in 2004, coupled with high wholesale energy prices, have significantly lowered the savings customers can obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. The tariff changes enable Michigan utilities to charge a fee to electric customers choosing non utility suppliers in order to recover certain stranded costs. Integrys Energy Services has experienced significant customer attrition as a result 60 of the tariff changes and higher wholesale prices. Customer attrition, high wholesale energy prices, and the tariff changes have also negatively impacted the margin from retail electric operations in Michigan. All other electric operations A $21.1 million increase in margin was primarily related to realized and unrealized gains on structured power transactions in the latter half of 2005. These transactions included the execution of purchase and sales contracts with municipalities, merchant generators, retail aggregators, and other power marketers made possible by changing market conditions. Additionally, Integrys Energy Services experienced increased margins from its merchant generation fleet as a result of increased dispatch levels due to improved market conditions. Period by period variability in the margin contributed by structured transactions and the merchant generation fleet is expected due to constantly changing market conditions and the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles. Oil option activity Mark to market gains recognized in 2005 on derivative instruments utilized to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006 and 2007 contributed $8.4 million to the increase in margin. The derivative contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value are recorded currently in earnings. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in different periods, compared to any offsetting tax credit phase outs that may occur. For the year ended December 31, 2005, unrealized mark to market gains of $4.0 million and $4.4 million were recognized for the 2006 and 2007 oil options, respectively, while no tax credit phase out was recognized because 2006 and 2007 tax credits will not be recognized until fuel is produced and sold in those periods. Hedges of 2005 exposure contributed an additional $0.3 million increase in margin ($1.9 million gain on settlement, net of $1.6 million of premium amortization). Liquidation of electric purchase contract In 2005, an electricity supplier exiting the wholesale market in Maine forced Integrys Energy Services to liquidate a firm contract to buy power in 2006 and 2007. Integrys Energy Services recognized a gain of $8.2 million related to the liquidation of this contract, and entered into a new contract with another supplier for firm power in 2006 and 2007 to supply its customers in Maine. The cost to purchase power under the new contract will be more than the cost under the liquidated contract. As a result, purchased power costs will be $6.4 million higher in 2006 and slightly higher than the original contracted amount in 2007, substantially offsetting the 2005 gain. The natural gas margin at Integrys Energy Services increased $5.1 million (9.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in Integrys Energy Services electric margin: Gas margins (principally Canada, Michigan, and Wisconsin retail) Major contributors to growth in Integrys Energy Services gas margins included the continued expansion of our Canadian retail and wholesale business, as well as increased margins from our retail operations in Michigan and Wisconsin. Counterparty settlement The natural gas margin increased $3.3 million as a result of a favorable settlement with a counterparty. Unrealized gain on Ohio options A $2.9 million mark to market gain on options utilized to manage supply costs for Ohio customers, which expired in varying months through September 2006, also contributed to the margin increase. These contracts are utilized to reduce the risk of price movements and changes in load requirements during customer signup periods. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the options (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding offset related to the customer contracts. Full requirements gas contracts with Integrys Energy Services customers are not considered derivatives and, therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on these contracts until settlement. Spot to forward differential The natural gas storage cycle (described in more detail below) accounted for a $7.2 million decrease in the wholesale natural gas margin (for the year ended 61 December 31, 2005, the natural gas storage cycle had a $5.2 million negative impact on margin, compared with a $2.0 million favorable impact on margin for the same period in 2004). Integrys Energy Services experiences earnings volatility associated with the natural gas storage cycle, which runs annually from April through March of the next year. Generally, injections of natural gas into storage inventory take place in the summer months and natural gas is withdrawn from storage in the winter months. Integrys Energy Services policy is to hedge the value of natural gas storage with sales in the over the counter and futures markets, effectively locking in a margin on the natural gas in storage. However, fair market value hedge accounting rules require the natural gas in storage to be marked to market using spot prices, while the future sales contracts are marked to market using forward prices. When the spot price of natural gas changes disproportionately to the forward price of natural gas, Integrys Energy Services experiences volatility in its earnings. Consequently, earnings volatility may occur within the contract period for natural gas in storage. The accounting treatment does not impact the underlying cash flows or economics of these transactions. At December 31, 2005, there was a $5.8 million difference between the market value of natural gas in storage and the market value of future sales contracts (net unrealized loss), related to the 2005/2006 natural gas storage cycle. This difference between the market value of natural gas in storage and the market value of future sales contracts related to the 2005/2006 storage cycle is expected to vary with market conditions, but will reverse entirely and have a positive impact on earnings when all of the natural gas is withdrawn from storage. Earnings Integrys Energy Services earnings increased $32.4 million (77.7%), for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Higher earnings were driven by the $37.9 million increase in margin, partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses, a $24.3 million after tax increase in results from discontinued operations, a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits, and the negative impact of a $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle recorded in 2005. Overview of Holding Company and Other Segment Operations Holding Company and Other operations include the operations of Integrys Energy Group and the nonutility activities at WPSC and UPPCO. Holding Company and Other operations recognized earnings of $5.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to earnings of $11.9 million in 2004. The decrease in earnings is primarily due to a $9.4 million decrease in pre tax gains related to land sales, an income tax benefit recognized in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR, and a $5.5 million increase in interest expense. Pre tax land sale gains of $10.3 million were recognized in 2005, compared to $19.7 million of pre tax land sale gains in 2004. Interest expense increased primarily as a result of restructuring Sunburys debt to a Integrys Energy Groups obligation in June 2005 and higher average short term debt in 2005, compared to 2004. Partially offsetting the items discussed above was a $9.1 million increase in pre tax equity earnings from ATC and $1.5 million of deferred financing costs that were written off in the first quarter of 2004. Pre tax equity earnings from ATC were $25.1 million in 2005, compared to $16.0 million in 2004. Integrys Energy Groups ownership interest in ATC increased from approximately 23% at December 31, 2004, to approximately 31.0% at December 31, 2005. The higher ownership interest was primarily the result of Integrys Energy Groups continued funding of a portion of the Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line. 62 Operating Expenses Integrys Energy Groups Operating Expenses (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 535.4 $ 508.6 5.3 % Depreciation and decommissioning expense 142.3 106.8 33.2 % Taxes other than income 47.3 45.8 3.3 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses increased $26.8 million (5.3%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Utility operating and maintenance expenses increased $12.9 million, primarily as a result of a $13.6 million increase in WPSCs operating and maintenance expenses. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: The combined increase in pension expense, active and postretirement medical expense, salaries, and customer service expense was approximately $25 million. Transmission related expenses increased $9.9 million. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the 2005 sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs. The increases discussed above were partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expenses of approximately $28 million related to Kewaunee, due to the sale of this facility on July 5, 2005. Operating and maintenance expenses at Integrys Energy Services increased $15.8 million. Approximately $11 million of the increase related to higher payroll and benefit costs associated with recent business expansion. Commissions paid to brokers and third party agents increased $2.4 million and bad debt expense increased $2.3 million, primarily as a result of higher energy prices. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense increased $35.5 million (33.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004, largely due to an increase of $35.0 million at WPSC. The increase at WPSC was driven by higher gains on decommissioning trust assets prior to the sale of Kewaunee of approximately $35 million. Realized gains on decommissioning trust assets (included as a component of miscellaneous income) offset the increased decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice. Continued capital investment at WPSC also resulted in an increase in depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by a $7.0 million decrease in depreciation resulting from the sale of the Kewaunee assets in July 2005. 63 Other Income (Expense) Integrys Energy Groups Other Income (Expense) (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Miscellaneous income $ 86.2 $ 47.9 80.0 % Interest expense (62.0 ) (54.2 ) 14.4 % Minority interest 4.5 3.4 32.4 % Other (expense) income $ 28.7 $ (2.9 ) Miscellaneous Income Miscellaneous income increased $38.3 million (80.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the largest contributors to the change in miscellaneous income: Approximately $35 million of the increase in miscellaneous income related to realized gains on nuclear decommissioning trust assets. The nonqualified decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which was completed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on income available for common shareholders. Pre tax equity earnings from Integrys Energy Groups investment in ATC increased $9.1 million. Pre tax equity earnings from ATC were $25.1 million in 2005, compared to $16.0 million in 2004. WPSC sold a 30% interest in the Weston 4 power plant to DPC in the fourth quarter of 2005. Proceeds received from the sale included reimbursement for approximately $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC for capital expenditures related to DPCs portion of the facility, which were funded by WPSC in 2004 and 2005. The $8 million reimbursement was recorded as miscellaneous income in 2005. Land sale gains of $10.3 million were recognized in 2005, compared to land sale gains of $19.7 million in 2004, resulting in a $9.4 million decrease in miscellaneous income. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense was primarily related to an increase in the average level of short term debt outstanding in 2005, compared to 2004. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 20.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 16.3% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in the effective tax rate was driven by a tax benefit recorded in 2004 for land donated to the WDNR, a $2.9 million increase in the year over year provision for income taxes related to favorable settlements of certain tax audits and refund claims in 2004, and a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized. Our ownership interest in the synthetic fuel operation resulted in recognizing the tax benefit of Section 29/45K federal tax credits totaling $26.1 million in 2005 and $27.8 million in 2004. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Discontinued operations, net of tax, at Sunbury increased $22.5 million, from an after tax net loss of $13.4 million in 2004 to after tax income of $9.1 million in 2005. The margin at Sunbury increased $42.6 million, primarily due to improved opportunities to sell power into the market (made possible by the expiration of a fixed price outtake contract on December 31, 2004, and higher energy market prices). Integrys Energy Services earnings were negatively impacted by an $80.6 million pre tax impairment loss 64 that was required to write down Sunburys long lived assets to fair market value and the recognition of $9.1 million in interest expense related to the termination of Sunburys interest rate swap. However, these items were substantially offset by an $86.8 million pre tax gain recognized on the sale of Sunburys allocation emission allowances. The year over year change in discontinued operations was also negatively impacted by a $4.4 million termination payment received from Duquesne Power in December 2004, as a result of Duquesnes termination of the asset sale agreement with Sunbury. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to WPS Niagara Generation, LLC increased $2.8 million, from a net loss of $0.4 million in 2004 to income of $2.4 million in 2005. The increase in income generated from WPS Niagara Generation was mostly due to an increase in the average price per megawatt sold from this facility in 2005 compared to 2004. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principles The adoption of Interpretation No. 47 at Integrys Energy Services on December 31, 2005, resulted in a negative $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, related to recording a liability for asbestos remediation at certain of Integrys Energy Services generation plants. For the utility segments of Integrys Energy Group, we concluded it was probable that any differences between expenses under Interpretation No. 47 and expenses currently recovered through customer rates will be recoverable in future customer rates. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement had no impact on the utility segments income. BALANCE SHEET INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP 2006 Compared with 2005 Inventories increased $151.9 million (49.9%), from $304.4 million at December 31, 2005, to $456.3 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in inventories was primarily related to an $85.2 million (42.5%) increase in natural gas in storage at Integrys Energy Services and a combined $65.7 million increase related to natural gas in storage at MGUC and MERC. A 121% increase in natural gas volumes in storage at Integrys Energy Services at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, drove the increase in inventory at Integrys Energy Services, which was partially offset by a 20% decrease in the average cost of inventory in storage. High natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas) increased the profitability of natural gas transactions in 2006, driving the increase in natural gas volumes in storage as well as the related structured wholesale natural gas storage transactions under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Current assets from risk management activities increased $162.2 million (17.9%) at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, and current liabilities from risk management activities increased $148.9 million (17.5%). Long term assets from risk management activities increased $81.7 million (36.1%) at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, and long term liabilities from risk management activities increased $76.3 million (40.5%). The increase in short term and long term risk management assets and liabilities was primarily related to an increase in contracted forward natural gas and electric sales volumes, partially offset by a decrease in the forward price of natural gas and electricity at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Contracted forward electric volumes increased significantly, largely due to the continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services customer focused wholesale electric business, its entry into the Texas and Illinois retail electric markets, and moderate retail growth in New York and New England. Contracted forward natural gas volumes also increased, partially attributed to high natural gas storage spreads at the end of 2006, which drove an increase in wholesale natural gas transactions under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Retail natural gas volumes under contract at December 31, 2006 also increased compared to the prior year as lower natural gas prices provided more opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to enter into supply contracts with customers in existing markets. Property, plant, and equipment, net, increased $490.8 million (24.0%), to $2,534.8 million at December 31, 2006, from $2,044.0 million at December 31, 2005. The major contributors to the change in property, plant, and equipment are summarized below: 65 Capital expenditures recorded in 2006 were $342.0 million, of which $146 million related to the construction of Weston 4. Integrys Energy Group acquired retail natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006, including $290.4 million of property, plant, and equipment. Depreciation expense of $106.1 million was recorded in 2006. Regulatory assets increased $145.8 million (53.6%), from $272.0 million at December 31, 2005, to $417.8 million at December 31, 2006. The majority of this increase, $126.1 million, related to pensions and postretirement items, including the adoption of SFAS No. 158 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information) and certain pension and postretirement purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of natural gas utility operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006 (see Note 6, Acquisition and Sale of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). Goodwill increased $267.1 million, from $36.8 million at December 31, 2005, to $303.9 million at December 31, 2006, related to the acquisition of natural gas utility operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006. See Note 6, "Acquisition and Sale of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Short term debt increased $458.0 million (173.0%), from $264.8 million at December 31, 2005, to $722.8 million at December 31, 2006 and long term debt increased $442.6 million (50.8%), from $871.1 million at December 31, 2005 to $1,313.7 million at December 31, 2006. In 2006, additional borrowings were primarily utilized to fund the purchase of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, the construction of Weston 4, and for working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. Regulatory liabilities decreased $71.5 million (19.2%), from $373.2 million at December 31, 2005, to $301.7 million at December 31, 2006, driven by a decrease in the regulatory liability related to proceeds received from the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale. WPSC amortized $70.8 million of the regulatory liability related to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust fund in 2006. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations increased $106.5 million (129.7%), from $82.1 million at December 31, 2005, to $188.6 million at December 31, 2006. The increase was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 158 on December 31, 2006 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP We believe that our cash balances, liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to equity capital markets and borrowing capacity made available because of strong credit ratings, when taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. However, our operating cash flow and access to capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of our control. In addition, our borrowing costs can be impacted by short term and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. We believe our ratings are among the best in the energy industry (see "Financing Cash Flows Credit Ratings" below). 66 Operating Cash Flows During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $72.9 million, compared with $77.4 million in 2005. The $4.5 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by an $88.2 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements, primarily due to an increase in natural gas inventories at Integrys Energy Services. Natural gas in storage at Integrys Energy Services increased $85.2 million primarily related to a 121% increase in natural gas volumes in storage at Integrys Energy Services at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005 (partially offset by a 20% decrease in the average cost of inventory in storage). Integrys Energy Services chose to purchase more natural gas for storage due to high natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas). The increase in cash used to fund higher Integrys Energy Services natural gas inventories was partially offset by cash used to fund expenditures incurred in 2005 related to the unplanned outage at Kewaunee, the start up of MISO, and coal shortages (these items are discussed below and have only partially been collected from ratepayers). During 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $77.4 million, compared to $242.5 million in 2004. The $165.1 million decrease was driven by an $81.6 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements, primarily at Integrys Energy Services. Net cash provided by operating activities also decreased due to various expenditures incurred in 2005 at WPSC that will be collected from ratepayers in future years. In 2005, expenditures incurred related to the unplanned Kewaunee outage were approximately $49 million, expenditures incurred related to MISO were approximately $21 million, and increased expenditures related to coal shortages were approximately $6 million. Investing Cash Flows Net cash used for investing activities was $1,030.1 million in 2006, compared to $148.8 million in 2005. The $881.3 million year over year increase was primarily due to $659.3 million of cash paid in 2006 for the acquisition of the Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations from Aquila, $112.5 million of proceeds received in 2005 related to the sale of Kewaunee, $127.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from the liquidation of the related non qualified decommissioning trust, and $95.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. Also contributing to the increase was $22.0 million of cash deposited into an escrow account in 2006 for the payment of the outstanding principal balance of first mortgage bonds in January 2007 (discussed below in significant financing activities). Partially offsetting the increase in cash used for investing activities was a $71.9 million decrease in capital expenditures (discussed below), proceeds of $38.5 million received in 2006 from the sale of the companys one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, and proceeds of $19.9 million received in 2006 from the sale of WPS ESI Gas Storage, LLC. Net cash used for investing activities decreased from $312.4 million in 2004 to $148.8 million in 2005. The $163.6 million (52.4%) decrease was driven by proceeds of $127.1 million received from the liquidation of the non qualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale, $112.5 million of proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, and $95.1 million of proceeds received from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. The decreases were partially offset by a $124.1 million increase in capital expenditures (primarily related to the construction of Weston 4) and a $30.3 million increase in the purchase of equity investments and other acquisitions, driven by a $41.3 million increase in Integrys Energy Groups funding of ATCs Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line in 2005, compared to 2004. 67 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Millions 2006 2005 2004 Electric utility $ 282.1 $ 373.9 $ 223.0 Gas utility 54.6 36.4 62.7 Integrys Energy Services 5.5 2.7 3.8 Other (0.2 ) 0.9 0.3 Integrys Energy Group Consolidated $ 342.0 $ 413.9 $ 289.8 The decrease in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2006 compared to 2005 was mainly due to lower capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Weston 4 is expected to be commercially operational by June 2008. The increase in capital expenditures at the gas utility was related to a combined $20.1 million of capital expenditures incurred by MGUC and MERC for natural gas mains. The increase in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2005 compared to 2004 was mainly due to higher capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Gas utility capital expenditures decreased in 2005 over 2004 primarily due to the completion of the automated meter reading project. Financing Cash Flows Net cash provided by financing activities was $891.7 million in 2006, compared with net cash related to financing activities of $0 in 2005. The change was primarily attributed to a $458.0 million increase in short term debt and the issuance of $447.0 million of long term debt in 2006. Increased borrowings were used primarily for the acquisitions of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, construction expenditures related to Weston 4, working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services, and for other general corporate purposes. Net cash related to financing activities was $0 in 2005, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $76.8 million in 2004. Although cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2005, compared to 2004, this decrease was offset by a decrease in cash used for investing activities (primarily related to proceeds received from various asset sales in 2005). Significant Financing Activities As part of the merger, Integrys Energy Group anticipates increasing our quarterly common stock dividend rate to 66 cents per share going forward. This will result in a prorated dividend for the first quarter of 2007. We anticipate that Integrys Energy Group will continue the 66 cents per share quarterly dividend rate in the future, subject to evaluation by the Integrys Energy Group Board of Directors as future business needs dictate. Integrys Energy Group had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $562.8 million and $254.8 million at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Included in these amounts were commercial paper borrowings of $38.0 million and $75.0 million related to WPSC at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Integrys Energy Group had other outstanding short term debt of $160.0 million and $10.0 million as of December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Of the $160 million, $150.0 million related to Integrys Energy Services and $10.0 million related to WPSC. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services entered into a $150.0 million 364 day credit agreement to finance its margin requirements related to natural gas and electric contracts traded on the NYMEX and the ICE, as well as the cost of natural gas in storage and for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under this agreement are guaranteed by Integrys Energy Group. As of December 31, 2006, the entire $150 million available under the credit agreement was utilized by Integrys Energy Services. 68 On December 14, 2006, the Village of Weston, Wisconsin, issued $22.0 million of 3.95% Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds and loaned the proceeds from the sale of the bonds to WPSC. In return, WPSC issued $22.0 million of 3.95% senior notes, due in 2013, to the Village of Weston. At December 31, 2006, the $22.0 million of proceeds received from the Village of Weston were classified as restricted cash. In January 2007, WPSC used the restricted cash to repay the outstanding principal balance of its 6.90% first mortgage bonds which originally matured in 2013. In December 2006, WPSC also issued $125 million of 5.55% 30 year senior notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were used for general corporate purposes, including funding construction costs and capital additions and reducing short term indebtedness. On December 1, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $300 million of junior subordinated notes. Interest has been fixed at 6.22% through the use of forward starting interest rate swaps described more fully in Note 3, "Risk Management Activities." For more information on the junior subordinated notes, see Note 14, "Long term Debt." In 2006, 2005, and 2004 Integrys Energy Group issued new shares of common stock under its Stock Investment Plan and under certain stock based employee benefit and compensation plans. As a result of these plans, equity increased $25.0 million, $29.0 million, and $28.3 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Integrys Energy Group did not repurchase any existing common stock during 2006 or 2005. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group entered into a forward equity sale agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as forward purchaser, relating to 2.7 million shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock. On May 10, 2006, Integrys Energy Group physically settled the forward equity agreement and thereby issued 2.7 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $139.6 million. The proceeds were used to pay down commercial paper borrowings originally utilized to finance the acquisition of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and for general corporate purposes. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group issued and sold 1.9 million shares of common stock at a public offering price of $53.70 per share. The proceeds of $98.3 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, were used to reduce short term debt and fund equity contributions to subsidiary companies. In June 2005, $62.9 million of non recourse debt at an Integrys Energy Services subsidiary that was used to finance the purchase of Sunbury was restructured to a five year Integrys Energy Group obligation in connection with the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances. An additional $2.7 million drawn on a line of credit at Integrys Energy Services was rolled into the five year Integrys Energy Group obligation. The floating interest rate on the total five year Integrys Energy Group obligation of $65.6 million was fixed at 4.595% through two interest rate swaps. See Note 4, "Discontinued Operations," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to Sunbury. In January 2004, WPSC retired $49.9 million of its 7.125% series first mortgage bonds. These bonds had an original maturity date of July 1, 2023. In January 2004, Integrys Energy Group retired $50.0 million of its 7.0% trust preferred securities. As a result of this transaction, WPSR Capital Trust I, a Delaware business trust, was dissolved. Credit Ratings Integrys Energy Group and WPSC use internally generated funds and commercial paper borrowing to satisfy most of their capital requirements. Integrys Energy Group also periodically issues long term debt and common stock to reduce short term debt, maintain desired capitalization ratios, and fund future growth. Integrys Energy Group may seek nonrecourse financing for funding nonregulated acquisitions. Integrys Energy Groups commercial paper borrowing program provides for working capital requirements of the nonregulated businesses, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC. WPSC has its own commercial paper borrowing program. WPSC also periodically issues long term debt, receives equity contributions from 69 Integrys Energy Group, and makes payments for return of capital to Integrys Energy Group to reduce short term debt, fund future growth, and maintain capitalization ratios as authorized by the PSCW. The specific forms of long term financing, amounts, and timing depend on the availability of projects, market conditions, and other factors. The current credit ratings for Integrys Energy Group and WPSC are listed in the table below. Credit Ratings Standard & Poors Moodys Integrys Energy Group Corporate credit rating Senior unsecured debt Commercial paper Credit facility Junior subordinated notes A BBB+ A 2 BBB n/a A3 P 2 A3 Baa1 WPSC Senior secured debt Preferred stock Commercial paper Credit facility A BBB+ A 2 Aa3 A3 P 1 A1 We believe these ratings continue to be among the best in the energy industry and allow us to access commercial paper and long term debt markets on favorable terms. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, are subject to change, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. On February 21, 2007, Standard & Poors lowered the corporate credit rating on Integrys Energy Group to A from A and removed it from CreditWatch with negative implications. Standard & Poors also lowered Integrys Energy Groups unsecured ratings to BBB+ from A and all other issue specific ratings by one notch. Standard & Poors stated that the ratings actions are due to concerns related to plans to expand its energy marketing business, the dividend requirements that will result from the merger, moderate capital expenditure requirements, lower than expected performance at MGUC and MERC, and uncertainty regarding future rate relief as well as full integration to commence at the newly acquired Peoples utilities. Standard & Poors also lowered all WPSCs issue specific ratings by one notch as WPSCs liquidity is being pressured by its ongoing construction program. Standard & Poors outlook for all Integrys Energy Group related companies is negative pending the sale of Peoples Energy Corporations oil and natural gas production business and successful integration of recent acquisitions. On February 21, 2007, Moodys downgraded the senior unsecured rating of Integrys Energy Group to A3 from A1, downgraded the bank credit facility to A3 from A1, downgraded the commercial paper rating to Prime 2 from Prime 1, and downgraded the junior subordinated notes to Baa1 from A2. Moodys also downgraded WPSCs senior secured rating to Aa3 from Aa2, its senior unsecured bank credit facility to A1 from Aa3, and its preferred stock to A3 from A2. Moodys also confirmed WPSCs commercial paper rating at Prime 1. Moodys actions to downgrade are due to concerns about increases in Integrys Energy Groups consolidated debt levels and business risk profile evidenced by the increased scale and scope of the post merger non regulated energy marketing business plus the entry into the historically more challenging regulatory jurisdiction of Illinois. Initially, on November 28, 2006, Standard & Poors assigned Integrys Energy Groups $300 million junior subordinated notes a BBB+ rating due to the notes subordinated position in Integrys Energy Groups capital structure and the potential for interest deferral and Moodys assigned a rating of A2 to the junior subordinated notes. Rating agencies use a number of both quantitative and qualitative measures in determining a companys credit rating. These measures include business risk, liquidity risk, competitive position, capital mix, financial condition, predictability of cash flows, management strength, and future direction. Some of the quantitative measures can be analyzed through a few key financial ratios, while the qualitative measures are more subjective. 70 Integrys Energy Group and WPSC hold credit lines to back 100% of their commercial paper borrowing and letters of credit. A significant decrease in the commercial paper credit ratings could adversely affect the companies by increasing the interest rates at which they can borrow and potentially limiting the availability of funds to the companies through the commercial paper market. A restriction in the companies ability to use commercial paper borrowing to meet working capital needs would require them to secure funds through alternate sources resulting in higher interest expense, higher credit line fees, and a potential delay in the availability of funds. Integrys Energy Services maintains underlying agreements to support its electric and natural gas trading operations. In the event of a deterioration of Integrys Energy Groups credit rating, many of these agreements allow the counterparty to demand additional assurance of payment. This provision could pertain to existing business, new business, or both with the counterparty. The additional assurance requirements could be met with letters of credit, surety bonds, or cash deposits and would likely result in Integrys Energy Group being required to maintain increased bank lines of credit or incur additional expenses, and could restrict the amount of business Integrys Energy Services would be able to conduct. Integrys Energy Services uses the NYMEX, the ICE, and over the counter financial markets to mitigate its exposure to physical customer obligations. These contracts are closely correlated to the customer contracts, but price movements on the contracts may require financial backing. Certain movements in price for contracts through the NYMEX and the ICE require posting of cash deposits equal to the market move. For the over the counter market, the underlying contract may allow the counterparty to require additional collateral to cover the net financial differential between the original contract price and the current forward market. Increased requirements related to market price changes usually only result in a temporary liquidity need that will unwind as the sales contracts are fulfilled. Discontinued Operations Net cash provided by discontinued operations was $61.0 million in 2006 and $59.1 million in 2005. The increase in cash provided by discontinued operations in 2006 was driven by a decrease in cash paid for emission allowances required to operate Sunbury in 2006, compared to 2005 (substantially all of the emission allowances required to operate Sunbury through the 2006 sale were purchased in 2005), and from the $33.6 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunbury in 2006. These increases were partially offset by $110.9 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances in 2005 (which was partially offset by income taxes paid related to the gain on the sale of these emission allowances). Net cash provided by discontinued operations was $59.1 million in 2005, compared to net cash used for discontinued operations of $17.6 million in 2004. The increase in cash provided by discontinued operations in 2005 was driven by $110.9 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances in 2005, partially offset by income taxes paid related to the gain on the sale of these emission allowances. 71 Future Capital Requirements and Resources Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the contractual obligations of Integrys Energy Group, including its subsidiaries. Contractual Obligations Total Payments Due By Period As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Amounts Committed 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Thereafter Long term debt principal and interest payments $ 2,026.8 $ 102.0 $ 311.3 $ 342.0 $ 1,271.5 Operating lease obligations 28.7 5.6 9.0 7.3 6.8 Commodity purchase obligations 5,221.7 2,565.4 1,400.1 617.4 638.8 Purchase orders 434.0 393.9 40.1 Capital contributions to equity method investment 56.6 44.2 12.4 Other 352.6 40.6 64.5 40.0 207.5 Total contractual cash obligations $ 8,120.4 $ 3,151.7 $ 1,837.4 $ 1,006.7 $ 2,124.6 Long term debt principal and interest payments represent bonds issued, notes issued, and loans made to Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries. We record all principal obligations on the balance sheet. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that the hybrid instrument discussed in Note 14 of Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, "Long Term Debt," will be retired in 2016. Energy supply contracts at Integrys Energy Services included as part of commodity purchase obligations are generally entered into to meet obligations to deliver energy to customers. WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC expect to recover the costs of their contracts in future customer rates. Purchase orders include obligations related to normal business operations and large construction obligations, including 100% of Weston 4 obligations. The sale of a 30% interest in Weston 4 to DPC was completed in November 2005, but WPSC retains the legal obligation to initially remit payment to third parties for 100% of all construction costs incurred, 30% of which is subsequently be billed to DPC. Capital contributions to equity method investment consist of our commitment to fund a portion of ATCs Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line together with ATC. Other mainly represents expected pension and postretirement funding obligations. Capital Requirements WPSC makes large investments in capital assets. Net construction expenditures are expected to be $764.1 million in the aggregate for the 2007 through 2009 period. The largest of these expenditures is for distribution projects (which include replacement of utility poles, transformers, meters, and the like) and environmental projects. WPSC is expected to incur costs of approximately $282 million from 2007 through 2009 related to distribution projects and approximately $163 million during the same time period for environmental projects. As part of its regulated utility operations, on September 26, 2003, WPSC submitted an application for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to the PSCW seeking approval to construct Weston 4, a 500 megawatt coal fired generation facility near Wausau, Wisconsin. The facility is estimated to cost approximately $779 million (including the acquisition of coal trains), of which WPSC is responsible for slightly more than 70% (approximately $549 million) of the costs. In November 2005, DPC purchased a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4, remitting proceeds of $95.1 million for its share of the construction costs (including carrying charges) as of the closing date of the sale. WPSC is responsible for slightly more than 70% of the costs because of certain common facilities that will be installed as part of the project. WPSC will have a larger than 70% interest in these common facilities. DPC will be billed by WPSC for 30% of all remaining costs to complete the construction of the plant. As of December 31, 2006, WPSC has incurred a total cost of approximately $434 million related to its ownership interest in the project. WPSC expects to incur additional construction costs through the date the plant goes into service of approximately $115 million in addition to approximately $73 million to fund construction of the transmission facilities required to support Weston 4. ATC will reimburse WPSC for the construction costs 72 of these transmission facilities and related carrying costs when Weston 4 becomes commercially operational, which is expected to occur by June 2008. Other significant anticipated construction expenditures for WPSC during the three year period from 2007 through 2009 include approximately $73 million related to a natural gas pipeline expansion project, approximately $62 million of expenditures at WPSC generation plants to ensure continued reliability of these facilities, and corporate services infrastructure projects of approximately $45 million. On April 18, 2003, the PSCW approved WPSCs request to transfer its interest in the Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line to ATC. Integrys Energy Group committed to fund 50% of total project costs incurred up to $198 million. Integrys Energy Group will receive additional equity in ATC in exchange for the project funding. Integrys Energy Group may terminate funding if the project extends beyond January 1, 2010. The total cost of the project is estimated at $420.3 million and it is expected that the line will be completed and placed in service in 2008. Integrys Energy Group has the right, but not the obligation, to provide additional funding in excess of $198 million up to 50% of the revised cost estimate. Integrys Energy Groups future funding of the line will be reduced by the amount funded by Allete, Inc. Allete exercised its option to fund $60 million of future capital calls for the portion of the Wausau to Duluth transmission line and had completed funding the $60 million as of February 2007. During 2007 and through the completion of the line in 2008, Integrys Energy Group expects to fund up to approximately $57 million for the Wausau to Duluth transmission line. Integrys Energy Group expects to provide additional capital contributions to ATC of approximately $75 million for the period 2007 through 2009 for other projects. Integrys Energy Groups expected capital contributions related to ATC for 2007 through 2009 are as follows: (In Millions) December 31, 2006 Wausau to Duluth transmission line $ 57.0 Capital contributions to ATC 75.0 Total future capital contributions from 2007 to 2009 related to ATC $ 132.0 UPPCO is expected to incur construction expenditures of about $47 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for electric distribution improvements and repairs and safety measures at hydroelectric facilities. MGUC is expected to incur construction expenditures of approximately $25 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for natural gas mains. MERC is expected to incur construction expenditures of approximately $46 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for natural gas mains. Capital expenditures identified at Integrys Energy Services for 2007 through 2009 are expected to be approximately $12.7 million. In 2007, Integrys Energy Services will develop a new landfill gas project, Winnebago Energy Center Development. Winnebago Energy Center Development is a 6.5 megawatt project near Rockford, Illinois, and will consist of installing gas cleanup equipment and engines to collect and burn landfill gas at the site to generate electricity. Integrys Energy Services plans to sell the electricity in the PJM marketplace. The project is initially expected to cost approximately $9 million. Other capital expenditures at Integrys Energy Services are related to scheduled major maintenance projects at Integrys Energy Services generation facilities and computer equipment related to business expansion and planned technology upgrades. All projected capital and investment expenditures are subject to periodic review and revision and may vary significantly from the estimates depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, industry restructuring, regulatory constraints, acquisition opportunities, market volatility, and economic trends. Other capital expenditures for Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries for 2007 through 2009 could be significant depending on its success in pursuing development and acquisition opportunities. 73 When appropriate, Integrys Energy Group may seek nonrecourse financing for a portion of the cost of these acquisitions. Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006, both Integrys Energy Group and WPSC were in compliance with all of the covenants under their lines of credit and other debt obligations. For the period 2007 through 2009, Integrys Energy Group plans to use internally generated funds net of forecasted dividend payments, cash proceeds from asset sales, and debt and equity financings to fund capital requirements. Integrys Energy Group plans to maintain current debt to equity ratios at appropriate levels to support current credit ratings and corporate growth. Management believes Integrys Energy Group has adequate financial flexibility and resources to meet its future needs. In June 2006, Integrys Energy Group entered into an unsecured $500 million 5 year credit agreement. This revolving credit facility replaced the $300 million bridge credit facility discussed below and is in addition to the previously existing credit facility which also has a borrowing capacity of $500 million, bringing Integrys Energy Groups total borrowing capacity under its general credit agreements to $1 billion. Both credit facilities back Integrys Energy Groups commercial paper borrowing programs and most letters of credit. The first credit line was entered into in June 2005, and is an unsecured $500 million 5 year agreement. In June 2005, WPSC also entered into a 5 year credit facility for $115 million to replace its former 364 day credit facility for the same amount. This credit line is used to back 100% of WPSCs commercial paper borrowing programs and letters of credit for WPSC. As of December 31, 2006, there was a total of $520.1 million available under Integrys Energy Groups general credit lines, including $73.2 million available under WPSCs general credit line. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Group filed a shelf registration under the new SEC securities offering reform rules for the ability to issue debt, equity, and certain types of hybrid securities. This shelf registration statement includes the unused capacity remaining under Integrys Energy Groups prior registration statement. Specific terms and conditions of securities issued will be determined prior to the actual issuance of any specific security. Under the new SEC securities offering reform rules, Integrys Energy Group will be able to issue securities under this registration statement for three years. Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors has authorized issuance of up to $700 million of equity, debt, or other securities under this shelf registration statement, $300 million of which was used in December 2006 when we issued the junior subordinated notes. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services entered into a $150 million 364 day credit agreement to finance its margin requirements related to natural gas and electric contracts traded on the NYMEX and ICE, as well as the cost of natural gas in storage and for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under this agreement are guaranteed by Integrys Energy Group. As of December 31, 2006, the entire $150 million available under the credit agreement was utilized by Integrys Energy Services. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group entered into two unsecured revolving credit agreements of $557.5 million and $300 million with J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. As discussed above, the $500 million 5 year credit agreement entered into in June 2005 replaced the $300 million bridge credit facility. The $557.5 million credit facility is a bridge facility intended to back commercial paper borrowings related to the purchase of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The capacity under the $557.5 million bridge facility is reduced by the amount of proceeds from any long term financing Integrys Energy Group completes, with the exception of proceeds received from the November 2005 equity offering. On March 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $269.5 million of commercial paper supported by the $557.5 million bridge credit facility to purchase the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan. On May 10, 2006, as a result of Integrys Energy Groups physical settlement of its forward equity agreement (and issuing 2.7 million shares of common stock upon settlement), the $557.5 million facility was reduced to $417.9 million. The $417.9 million credit agreement matures on September 5, 2007, and has representations and covenants that are similar to those in Integrys Energy Groups general credit facilities. On June 30, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $288.0 million of commercial paper supported by the remainder of the $417.9 million credit facility and the general credit facilities, to purchase the natural gas distribution 74 operations in Minnesota. Working capital and other post closing adjustments related to the acquisitions were funded by commercial paper supported by the general credit facilities. On December 1, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $300 million of junior subordinated notes, reducing the $417.9 million credit facility to $121 million. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," for more information related to the acquisitions of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. Other Future Considerations Merger with Peoples Energy Corporation For additional information on the merger with Peoples Energy, see Note 6, "Acquisition and Sales of Assets." Asset Management Strategy Our asset management strategy calls for continuous assessment of our existing assets as well consideration of the acquisition of assets that complement our existing business and strategy. This strategy also calls for a focus on the disposition of assets, including plants and entire business units, which are either no longer strategic to ongoing operations, are not performing as needed, or the disposition of which would reduce our risk profile. As a part of our asset management strategy, in December 2005, UPPCO sold a portion of its real estate holdings that were no longer needed for operations. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Integrys Energy Group continues to evaluate alternatives for the sale of the balance of our identified real estate holdings no longer needed for operation. Regulatory Matters and Rate Trends Under the prevailing Wisconsin fuel rules, WPSCs 2006 electric rates were subject to adjustment when electric generation fuel and purchased power costs fell outside of a pre determined band. This band was set at +2.0% and 0.5%, for 2006 by the PSCW. On March 8, 2006, the PSCW filed a notice of proceeding to review fuel rates as WPSC fuel costs were below the 0.5% limit. On April 25, 2006, WPSC filed with the PSCW a stipulation agreement with various interveners to refund a portion of the difference between fuel costs that were projected in the 2006 Wisconsin retail rate case and actual Wisconsin retail fuel costs incurred during the first half of 2006. This refund resulted in a credit to customers bills over the months of May 2006 to August 2006. On October 2, 2006, WPSC filed for an additional refund of $15.6 million to reflect additional fuel cost savings in the third quarter of 2006. The PSCW approved this filing and ordered this amount to be refunded based on November and December usage. Customer refunds of $28.6 million were made in 2006, related to the stipulation agreement. An additional refund to customers of $13.4 million was accrued at December 31, 2006. WPSC expects to make a final refund to customers in the spring of 2007. In its 2007 rate order, WPSCs band was set at +2.0% and 2.0%, for 2007 by the PSCW. To mitigate the volatility of fuel costs in 2007 and beyond, WPSC is employing risk management techniques pursuant to its PSCW approved Risk Plan and Policy, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. In WPSCs retail electric rate case proceeding for 2006, the PSCW applied a "financial harm" test when considering the rate recovery of certain deferred costs previously authorized for accounting purposes. The PSCW has not applied a financial harm test previously when considering the rate recovery of costs that were previously authorized for deferral. In WPSCs rate case proceeding for 2006, after applying the financial harm test, the PSCW disallowed rate recovery of the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of 50% of the pre tax loss realized on the sale of Kewaunee. None of these disallowed costs were found to be imprudent by the PSCW. Notwithstanding the PSCWs decision on these Kewaunee related deferred costs, WPSC still believes it is probable that all regulatory assets recorded at December 31, 2006, will be collected from ratepayers. 75 In both 2005 and 2006, forecasting and monitoring of fuel costs have become extremely difficult for both the PSCW and WPSC. These challenges can be attributed to the implementation of the MISO Day 2 market and volatility in natural gas prices. In 2005, the PSCW received several applications from various Wisconsin electric utilities under the PSC Chapter 116 fuel rules for large rate increases due to increased natural gas prices. In response, on February 7, 2006, the PSCW opened Docket 01 AC 224 to review the fuel rules. On February 1, 2007, the five utilities subject to the current fuel rules filed proposed changes to the fuel rules with the PSCW. The primary proposed change was to replace the trigger mechanism with a true "dead band" of 1% which would limit a utilitys annual exposure or opportunity to a maximum of 1% of fuel costs. On June 29, 2006, the PSCW opened Docket 05 EI 139 to address the recovery of costs associated with the MISO Day 2 market. Testimony has been filed and hearings were held February 13, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, WPSC had recorded a regulatory asset of $20.8 million for unrecovered MISO Day 2 costs. The recoverability and the timing of recovery of this regulatory asset and other costs will be addressed in this docket. Management still believes it is probable that the regulatory asset recorded for unrecovered MISO Day 2 costs will be collected from rate payers. For a discussion of regulatory filings and decisions, see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion related to the regulatory filings and decisions made in connection with the merger with Peoples Energy Corporation, see Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets." See Note 9, "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a list of regulatory assets recorded at December 31, 2006. Industry Restructuring Michigan Under the current Electric Choice program in Michigan, Integrys Energy Services established itself as a significant supplier to the industrial and commercial markets. However, prolonged high wholesale energy prices coupled with approved tariff changes for the regulated utilities have almost eliminated the savings customers can obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. As a result, many customers returned to the bundled tariff service of the incumbent utilities. The high wholesale energy prices and tariff changes caused a reduction in new business and renewals for Integrys Energy Services. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services Michigan retail electric business declined to less than one fourth the peak megawatts it was in 2005, and earnings contributed by Integrys Energy Services Michigan retail electric operations in 2006 were minimal. However, both Detroit Edison and Consumers Energy have initiated proceedings before the MPSC for rate increases relating to the recovery of substantial power supply costs incurred but not included in rates in 2005. Market prices for power in 2006 also declined significantly over the past six months, further reducing the benefit that regulated utility customers have experienced. The combination of lower market prices and potentially increasing utility rates could create the necessary conditions for customers to once again contract with non utility suppliers. The status of Michigans electric markets and more specifically the MPSCs Capacity Needs Report of January 3, 2006, were the subject of hearings in both the Senate and House Energy Committees. In addition, on April 6, 2006, Governor Granholm issued an Executive Directive instructing MPSC Chair Peter Lark to complete a state energy plan. On January 31, 2007, Chairman Peter Lark submitted the states 21st Century Energy Plan to Governor Granholm. See Michigan 21st Century Energy Plan discussion below for more information. If legislation rolling back the Electric Choice market is enacted, it could diminish the benefits of competitive supply for Michigan business customers. The impact on Integrys Energy Services of all the above, coupled with the volatile wholesale power market could range from significantly increasing Michigan business to a possible decision by Integrys Energy Services to exit Michigans retail electric market and redirect resources to more vibrant markets. However, it is unlikely that the most significant stakeholder, the customer, will stand for any set of outcomes that eradicates Electric Choice. Integrys Energy Services is actively participating in the legislative and regulatory process in order to protect its interests in Michigan. 76 Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment For a discussion of SECA, see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in the Notes to Integrys Energy Groups Financial Statements. Income Taxes Synthetic Fuel Production Facility Assuming no phase out, Integrys Energy Services expects to recognize approximately $37 million of Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2007, both from its ownership interest in a synthetic fuel facility and additional tons of synthetic fuel Integrys Energy Services will procure from one of its synthetic fuel partners. However, for 2007, we cannot predict the future prices of a barrel of oil and, therefore, have no way of knowing what portion of our 2007 tax credits will ultimately be phased out. Integrys Energy Services estimates that 2007 Section 29/45K federal tax credits will begin phasing out if the annual average NYMEX price of a barrel of oil reaches approximately $62, with a total phase out if the annual average NYMEX price of a barrel of oil reaches approximately $77. At December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services had derivative (option) contracts that mitigated approximately 75% of its volumetric exposure to Section 29/45K phase outs in 2007. The derivative contracts involve purchased and written options that provide for net cash settlement at expiration based on the annual average NYMEX trading price of oil in relation to the strike price of each option. The derivative contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the options are recorded currently as a component of nonregulated revenue. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in earnings in different periods than the tax credits. Pre tax mark to market gains / (losses) recognized in 2005 and 2006 related to 2007 options were $4.4 million and ($0.5) million, respectively. This $3.9 million net gain will reverse in 2007 assuming no phase out. In addition, based upon the option contracts in place at December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services anticipates it would recognize approximately $16 million of realized pre tax losses in 2007 assuming no phase out, which is equivalent to the cost of mitigating the risk of phase out of 75% of the 2007 Section 29/45K tax credits. For more information on the synthetic fuel production facility, see the Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in the Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Peshtigo River Land Donation In 2004, Integrys Energy Group submitted a request to have the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) conduct a pre filing review of a tax position related to its 2004 tax return. The tax position related to the value of the Peshtigo River land donated to the WDNR in 2004, for which Integrys Energy Group recorded a $4.1 million income tax benefit. In August 2006, the IRS finished a limited issue focused examination of the 2004 Integrys Energy Group consolidated tax return, which covered several issues, including the Peshtigo River Land donation. The IRS denied the donation deduction and issued a 30 day letter granting Integrys Energy Group the right to appeal its determination. Integrys Energy Group filed its protest of the IRS examination changes on September 22, 2006. The IRS provided its response to our protest on November 1, 2006. This matter is now proceeding to IRS Appeals. We still believe our position is appropriate and will continue to pursue this matter. Environmental See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of environmental considerations. 77 Wisconsin Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act In March 2006, Wisconsin Governor Doyle signed 2005 Wisconsin Act 141 (2005 Senate Bill 459), the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act, which requires Wisconsin electric providers to increase the amount of renewable electricity they sell by 2% above their current level before 2010 and 6% above their current level by 2015. The goal is to have 10% of the states electricity generated from renewable sources by 2015, which is intended to increase the use of renewable energy in Wisconsin, promote the development of renewable energy technologies, and strengthen the states energy efficiency programs. Administrative rules are currently being drafted. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 4% of Integrys Energy Groups generation in Wisconsin is from renewable sources. Integrys Energy Group continuously evaluates alternatives for cost effective renewable energy sources and will secure reliable and efficient renewable energy sources to meet both requirements by their respective dates. Michigan 21st Century Energy Plan On January 31, 2007, MPSC Chairman Peter Lark presented the "21st Century Energy Plan" to Governor Granholm. The plan recognizes the increased need for energy in the next 20 years. The plan proposes an alternative method of receiving pre construction approval for significant generating plant additions versus the alternative of building a generating plant and then seeking approval for recovery of costs. The plan calls for legislation to implement a 10% renewable energy portfolio standard by 2015 as well as a statewide energy efficiency program. Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator WPSC, UPPCO, and Integrys Energy Services are members of the MISO, which operates an electric wholesale market in the Midwest, including Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The market pricing is based on a locational marginal pricing system. The pricing mechanism expanded the market from a physical market to also include financial instruments and is intended to send price signals to stakeholders where generation or transmission system expansion is needed. MISO participants offer their generation and bid their customer load into the market on an hourly basis. This results in net receipts from, or net obligations to, MISO for each hour of each day. MISO aggregates these hourly transactions and currently provides updated settlement statements which may reflect billing adjustments and result in an increase or decrease to the net receipt from or net obligation to MISO. The billing adjustments may or may not be recovered through the rate recovery process. Market participants may dispute the updated settlement statements and related charges. At the end of each month, the amount due from or payable to MISO is estimated for those operating days where a 7 day settlement statement is not yet available. Thus, significant changes in the estimates and new information provided by MISO in subsequent settlement statements or through tariff interpretation changes could have a material impact on our results of operations with adjustments back to the start of the market. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1(w), "New Accounting Pronouncements," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements. GUARANTEES AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP See Note 18, "Guarantees," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding guarantees. See Note 24, "Variable Interest Entities," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 46R. 78 MARKET PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Market price risk management activities include the electric and natural gas marketing and related risk management activities of Integrys Energy Services, along with oil options used to mitigate the risk of an increase in oil prices that could reduce the amount of Section 29/45K federal tax credits that could be recognized. Integrys Energy Services marketing and trading operations manage power and natural gas procurement as an integrated portfolio with its retail and wholesale sales commitments. Derivative instruments are utilized in these operations. Integrys Energy Services measures the fair value of derivative instruments (including NYMEX, ICE, and over the counter contracts, options, natural gas and electric power physical fixed price contracts, basis contracts, and related financial instruments) on a mark to market basis. The fair value of derivatives is included in assets or liabilities from risk management activities on Integrys Energy Groups Consolidated Balance Sheets. The offsetting entry when fair value adjustments are made to assets or liabilities from risk management activities is to other comprehensive income (for the effective portion of cash flow hedges) or to earnings. The fair values of derivative instruments are adjusted each reporting period using various market sources and risk management systems. The primary input for natural gas and oil pricing is the settled forward price curve of the NYMEX and the ICE. Basis pricing is derived from published indices and documented broker quotes. Integrys Energy Services also determines electric prices based on published indices and documented broker quotes. The following table provides an assessment of the factors impacting the change in the net value of Integrys Energy Services assets and liabilities from risk management activities for the year ended December 31, 2006. Integrys Energy Services Mark to Market Roll Forward (Millions) Oil Options Natural Gas Electric Total Fair value of contracts at January 1, 2006 $ 23.6 $ 8.2 $ 29.8 $ 61.6 Less: contracts realized or settled during period 26.1 78.2 25.1 129.4 Plus: changes in fair value of contracts in existence at December 31, 2006 (2.2 ) 175.2 2.411.9 175.4 Fair value of contracts at December 31, 2006 $ (4.7 ) $ 105.2 $ 7.1 $ 107.6 The fair value of contracts at January 1, 2006, and December 31, 2006, reflects the values reported on the balance sheet for net mark to market current and long term risk management assets and liabilities as of those dates. Contracts realized or settled during the period includes the value of contracts in existence at January 1, 2006, that were no longer included in the net mark to market assets as of December 31, 2006, along with the amortization of those derivatives later designated as normal purchases and sales under SFAS No. 133. Changes in fair value of contracts in existence at December 31, 2006, includes unrealized gains and losses on contracts that existed at January 1, 2006, and contracts that were entered into subsequent to January 1, 2006, which are included in Integrys Energy Services portfolio at December 31, 2006, as well as gains and losses at the inception of contracts when a liquid market exists. There were, in many cases, offsetting positions entered into and settled during the period resulting in gains or losses being realized during the current period. The realized gains or losses from these offsetting positions are not reflected in the table above. Market quotes are more readily available for short duration contracts (generally for contracts with a duration of less than five years). The table below shows the sources of fair value and maturity of Integrys Energy Services risk management instruments. Integrys Energy Services Risk Management Contract Aging at Fair Value As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Source of Fair Value Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1 to 3 Years Maturity 4 to 5 Years Maturity in Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Prices actively quoted $ 69.4 $ 26.2 $ 5.5 $ (0.3 ) $ 100.8 Prices provided by external sources (11.3 ) 10.2 7.9 6.8 Total fair value $ 58.1 $ 36.4 $ 13.4 $ (0.3 ) $ 107.6 79 We derive the pricing for most contracts in the above table from active quotes or external sources. "Prices actively quoted" includes exchange traded contracts such as NYMEX and ICE contracts and a majority of basis swaps. "Prices provided by external sources" includes electric and natural gas contract positions for which pricing information, used by Integrys Energy Services to calculate fair value, is obtained primarily through broker quotes and other publicly available sources. Integrys Energy Services employs a variety of physical and financial instruments offered in the marketplace to limit risk exposure associated with fluctuating commodity prices and volumes, enhance value, and minimize cash flow volatility. However, the application of SFAS No. 133 and its related hedge accounting rules causes Integrys Energy Services to experience earnings volatility associated with electric and natural gas operations. Integrys Energy Services use of oil options to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits also causes earnings volatility. While risks associated with power generating facilities and power and natural gas contracts are economically hedged, certain transactions do not meet the definition of a derivative or do not qualify for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting principles. Consequently, gains and losses from these positions may not match with the income or loss on the related physical and financial hedging instruments in some reporting periods. The result causes volatility in Integrys Energy Services reported period by period earnings; however, the income statement impact of such gains or losses will reverse at the time of physical delivery and or settlement. The accounting treatment does not impact the underlying cash flows or economics of these transactions. See "Results of Operations Integrys Energy Group" for information regarding earnings volatility caused by the natural gas storage cycle. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP We have identified the following accounting policies to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements because their application requires significant judgment and reliance on estimations of matters that are inherently uncertain. Integrys Energy Groups management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Risk Management Activities Integrys Energy Group has entered into contracts that are accounted for as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended. At December 31, 2006, those derivatives not designated as hedges are primarily commodity contracts used to manage price risk associated with natural gas and electricity purchase and sale activities, as well as oil options used to manage exposure to the risk of an increase in oil prices that could reduce the amount of Section 29/45K federal tax credits we could recognize from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel production facility. Cash flow hedge accounting treatment may be used when Integrys Energy Groups contracts to buy or sell a commodity at a fixed price for future delivery to protect future cash flows corresponding with anticipated physical sales or purchases. Fair value hedge accounting may be used when Integrys Energy Group holds assets or firm commitments and enters into transactions that hedge the risk that the price of a commodity may change between the contracts inception and the physical delivery date of the commodity. To the extent that the hedging instrument is fully effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact on income available for common shareholders prior to settlement of the hedge. Derivatives at the utility segments do not impact income available for common shareholders because regulatory assets or liabilities are recorded pursuant to SFAS No. 71. In addition, Integrys Energy Group may apply the normal purchases and sales exception, provided by SFAS No. 133, as amended, to certain contracts. The normal purchases and sales exception provides that recognition of gains and losses in the Consolidated Financial Statements is not required until the settlement of the contracts. Derivative contracts that are determined to fall within the scope of SFAS No. 133, as amended, are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Integrys Energy Group. Changes in fair value, except those related to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges or qualifying for regulatory deferral, are generally included in the determination of income available for common shareholders at each financial reporting date until the contracts are ultimately settled. When available, quoted market prices are used to determine a contracts fair value. If no active trading market exists for a commodity or for a contracts duration, fair value is estimated through the use of internally developed 80 valuation techniques or models using external information wherever possible. Such estimates require significant judgment as to assumptions and valuation methodologies deemed appropriate by Integrys Energy Groups management. Like most commodity markets, after some length of time, markets for gas and power become relatively illiquid, making it difficult to obtain reliable price information. As a component of the fair value determination, Integrys Energy Group considers the requirements to service certain of its contracts as well as counterparty credit risk and liquidity risk. This component of the fair value determination is especially subjective because limited liquid market information is available to estimate this component. The effect of changing the underlying assumptions for this component of fair value is as follows: Change in Component Effect on Fair Value of Risk Management Assets and Liabilities at December 31, 2006 (Millions) 100% increase $18.7 decrease 50% decrease $ 9.3 increase These potential changes in fair value would be included in current and long term liabilities from risk management activities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and as part of nonregulated revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income unless the related contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case potential changes would be included in Other Comprehensive Income Cash Flow Hedges on the Consolidated Statements of Common Shareholders Equity. Purchase Accounting Our acquisitions of MGUC and MERC were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting as prescribed in SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." Management makes assumptions of fair value based upon historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. Assumptions may be incomplete, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the validity of such assumptions, estimates, or actual results. Both MGUC and MERC are predominantly regulated utilities; therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," the fair value of the majority of the assets and liabilities did not change significantly as a result of applying purchase accounting. Material environmental related pre acquisition contingencies were identified at MGUC (related to required natural gas plant remediation); however, MGUC received authorization from the MPSC to recover any prudently incurred costs related to this environmental liability in future rates. Therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 71, the environmental liability of approximately $25 million recorded for natural gas plant remediation was offset by a corresponding regulatory asset. In addition, pension and postretirement benefit obligations were identified at both MGUC and MERC. Liabilities of approximately $21 million and $17 million were recorded for MGUC and MERC, respectively and were offset with regulatory assets. As discussed below within "Asset Impairment," a significant amount of goodwill resulted from these acquisitions, which will require impairment testing on at least an annual basis. Asset Impairment Integrys Energy Group annually reviews its assets for impairment. SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long Lived Assets," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," form the basis for these analyses. The review for impairment of tangible assets is more critical to Integrys Energy Services than to our other segments because of its significant investment in property, plant, and equipment and lack of access to cost of service based rate setting that is available to our regulated segments. At December 31, 2006, the carrying value of Integrys Energy Services property, plant, and equipment totaled $125.7 million. We believe that the accounting estimate related to asset impairment of power plants is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) the estimate is susceptible to change from period to period because it requires management to make assumptions about future market sales pricing, production costs, capital expenditures, and generation volumes and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position or results of operations. Managements assumptions about future market sales 81 prices and generation volumes require significant judgment because actual market sales prices and generation volumes have fluctuated in the past as a result of changing fuel costs, environmental changes, and required plant maintenance and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The primary estimates used at Integrys Energy Services in the impairment analysis are future revenue streams and operating costs. A combination of inputs from both internal and external sources is used to project revenue streams. Integrys Energy Services forecasts future operating costs with input from external sources for fuel costs and forward energy prices. These estimates are modeled over the projected remaining life of the power plants using the methodology defined in SFAS No. 144. Integrys Energy Services evaluates property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators include a significant underperformance of the assets relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant change in the use of the assets or business strategy related to such assets, and significant negative industry or economic trends. SFAS No. 144 requires that if the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows from a companys asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, an asset impairment must be recognized in the financial statements. For assets held for sale, impairment charges are recorded if the carrying value of such assets exceeds the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The amount of impairment recognized is calculated by reducing the carrying value of the asset to its fair value (or fair value less costs to sell if held for sale). Throughout 2006, Integrys Energy Services tested its power plants for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that their carrying amount might not be recoverable. No impairment charges were recorded in 2006 as a result of the recoverability tests. Results of past impairment tests may not necessarily be an indicator of future tests given the criticality of the accounting estimates involved, as discussed more fully above. Changes in actual results or assumptions could result in an impairment. WPSC recorded goodwill of $36.4 million in its gas utility segment resulting from the Wisconsin Fuel and Light acquisition in 2001. In 2006, Integrys Energy Group recorded $267.5 million of goodwill in conjunction with the acquisition of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The goodwill for each of our reporting units is tested for impairment annually based on the guidance of SFAS No. 142. The test for impairment includes assumptions about future profitability of our gas utility reporting units and the correlation between our natural gas utility operations and published projections for other similar natural gas utility operations. A significant change in the natural gas utility market and or our projections of future profitability could result in a loss being recorded on the income statement as a result of the impairment test. Receivables and Reserves Our regulated natural gas and electric utilities and Integrys Energy Services accrue estimated amounts of revenue for services rendered but not yet billed. Estimated unbilled sales are calculated using actual generation and throughput volumes, recorded sales, and weather factors. The estimated unbilled sales are assigned different rates based on historical customer class allocations. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, Integrys Energy Groups unbilled revenues were $184.8 million and $151.3 million, respectively. Any difference between actual sales and the estimates are recorded in revenue in the next period. Integrys Energy Services, UPPCO, MERC and MGUC record reserves for potential uncollectible customer accounts as an expense on the income statement and an uncollectible reserve on the balance sheet. WPSC, however, records a regulatory asset to offset its uncollectible reserve. Because the nonregulated energy marketing business involves higher credit risk, the reserve is more critical to Integrys Energy Services than to our other segments. Integrys Energy Services calculates the reserve for potential uncollectible customer receivable balances by applying an estimated bad debt experience rate to each past due aging category and reserving for 100% of specific customer receivable balances deemed to be uncollectible. The basis for calculating the reserve for receivables from wholesale counterparties considers netting agreements, collateral, and guarantees. If the assumption that historical uncollectible experience matches current customer default is incorrect, or if a specific customer with a large account receivable that has not previously been identified as a risk defaults, there could be significant changes to the expense and uncollectible reserve balance. 82 Pension and Postretirement Benefits The costs of providing non contributory defined benefit pension benefits and other postretirement benefits, described in Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions regarding future experience. Pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions we make to the plan, and earnings on plan assets. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used in determining the projected benefit and other postretirement benefit obligations and pension and other postretirement benefit costs, and health care cost trends. Changes made to the plan provisions may also impact current and future pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Integrys Energy Groups pension plan assets and other postretirement benefit plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Management believes that such changes in costs would be recovered at our regulated segments through the ratemaking process. The following chart shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the projected benefit obligation and the reported annual pension cost on the income statement as they relate to all of our defined benefit pension plans. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only. Actuarial Assumption (Millions, except percentages) Percent Change in Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation Impact on Pension Cost Discount rate (0.5 ) $ 43.1 $ 3.8 Discount rate 0.5 (40.8 ) (3.2 ) Rate of return on plan assets (0.5 ) N/A 2.6 Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (2.6 ) The following chart shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation and the reported annual other postretirement benefit cost on the income statement. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only. Actuarial Assumption (Millions, except percentages) Percent Change in Assumption Impact on Postretirement Benefit Obligation Impact on Postretirement Benefit Cost Discount rate (0.5 ) $ 23.0 $ 2.0 Discount rate 0.5 (20.5 ) (1.9 ) Health care cost trend rate (1.0 ) (31.8 ) (5.4 ) Health care cost trend rate 1.0 35.2 5.8 Rate of return on plan assets (0.5 ) N/A 0.8 Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (0.8 ) In selecting an assumed discount rate, we use the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve, which considers bonds, rated by Moodys as "Aa" or better, selected from the Lehman Brothers database that are non callable. Regression analysis is applied to construct a best fit curve that makes coupon yields to maturity a function of time to maturity. The pension or retiree medical cash flows are then matched to the appropriate spot rates and discounted back to the measurement date. 83 To select an assumed long term rate of return on qualified plan assets, we consider the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target allocation of the benefit trust portfolios. The assumed long term rate of return was 8.5% in 2006, 8.5% in 2005, and 8.75% in 2004. For 2006, 2005, and 2004, the actual rates of return on pension plan assets, net of fees, were 11.3%, 6.9%, and 9.7%, respectively. We base our determination of the expected return on qualified plan assets on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. Cumulative gains and losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the pension benefit obligation or market related value are amortized over the average remaining future service to expected retirement ages. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on plan assets are recognized for purposes of calculating benefit cost over a five year period. Because of this method, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. In selecting assumed health care cost trend rates, we consider past performance and forecasts of health care costs. More information on health care cost trend rates can be found in Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a table showing future payments that Integrys Energy Group expects to make for pension and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Regulatory Accounting The electric and gas utility segments of Integrys Energy Group follow SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," and our financial statements reflect the effects of the different ratemaking principles followed by the various jurisdictions regulating these segments. We defer certain items that would otherwise be immediately recognized as expenses and revenues because our regulators have authorized deferral as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, but is generally subject to review by regulators in rate proceedings for matters such as prudence and reasonableness. Management regularly assesses whether these regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as regulatory environment changes, earnings at the utility segments, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Once approved, we amortize the regulatory assets and liabilities into income over the rate recovery period. If recovery of costs is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these regulatory assets or liabilities are recognized in current period income. If our regulated electric and gas utility segments no longer meet the criteria for application of SFAS No. 71, we would discontinue its application as defined under SFAS No. 101, "Regulated Enterprises Accounting for the Discontinuation of Application of SFAS No. 71." Assets and liabilities recognized solely due to the actions of rate regulation would no longer be recognized on the balance sheet and would be classified as an extraordinary item in income for the period in which the discontinuation occurred. A write off of all of Integrys Energy Groups regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2006, would result in a 6.1% decrease in total assets, a 5.7% decrease in total liabilities, and a 59.1% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes. A write off of all of WPSCs regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2006, would result in a 9.8% decrease in WPSCs total assets, a 15.1% decrease in WPSCs total liabilities, and an 11.4% decrease in WPSCs income before taxes. 84 Tax Provision As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes for each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We must also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance, which is offset by an adjustment to income tax expense in the income statement. The interpretation of tax laws involves uncertainty, since tax authorities may interpret them differently. We establish liabilities for tax related contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," and review them in light of changing facts and circumstances. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, our SFAS 5 tax contingency reserve and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The assumptions involved are supported by historical data and reasonable projections. Significant changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on Integrys Energy Groups financial condition and results of operations. IMPACT OF INFLATION INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and report operating results in terms of historic cost. The statements provide a reasonable, objective, and quantifiable statement of financial results, but they do not evaluate the impact of inflation. For our regulated operations, to the extent we are not recovering the effects of inflation, we will file rate cases as necessary in the various jurisdictions. Our nonregulated businesses include inflation in forecasted costs. However, any increase from inflation is offset with projected business growth. Therefore, the estimated effect of inflation on our nonregulated businesses is minor. 85 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WPSC WPSC is a regulated electric and natural gas utility as well as a holding company. Electric and natural gas operations contributed approximately 69% and 31% of revenues in 2006, respectively. 2006 Compared with 2005 WPSC Overview WPSCs earnings on common stock for the years ended December 31 are shown in the following table: WPSCs Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Earnings on common stock $99.0 $81.4 21.6% WPSCs earnings on common stock were $99.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $81.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. As discussed in more detail below, the following factors impacted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. Electric utility earnings increased $20.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. Fuel and purchased power costs that were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), contributed an estimated $14 million after tax year over year increase in earnings. In addition, a PSCW ruling, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage as well as a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets in 2005, resulting in an after tax year over year increase in earnings of approximately $8 million. The electric rate increases at WPSC also had a positive year over year impact on earnings. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006, compared to 2005, which had an estimated $9 million year over year negative after tax impact on electric utility earnings. Natural gas utility earnings decreased $3.6 million, from earnings of $13.2 million in 2005, to earnings of $9.6 million in 2006, driven by unfavorable weather conditions and customer conservation efforts. Electric Utility Operations Electric Utility Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 990.6 $ 932.9 6.2 % Fuel and purchased power 497.0 390.6 27.2 % Margin $ 493.6 $ 542.3 (9.0 %) Sales in kilowatt hours Residential 2,871.1 2,850.3 0.7 % Commercial and industrial 8,125.1 8,183.9 (0.7 %) Wholesale 3,696.9 3,467.8 6.6 % Other 36.4 35.9 1.4 % Total sales in kilowatt hours 14,729.5 14,537.9 1.3 % Weather Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) 86 Electric utility revenue increased $57.7 million (6.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, largely due to the approved 2006 electric rate increases for WPSCs retail electric customers (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these rate increases) and rate increases for WPSCs wholesale customers resulting from the formula rate mechanism in place for these customers. Electric sales volumes also increased 1.3%, primarily related to a 6.6% increase in sales volumes to wholesale customers due to higher demand and new wholesale contracts. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, partially offset the increases discussed above. The electric utility margin decreased $48.7 million (9.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, primarily related to the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Excluding the $54.2 million increase in fixed payments made to Dominion Energy Kewaunee during the year ended December 31, 2006, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $5.5 million, driven by the retail electric and wholesale rate increases (discussed above). In addition, fuel and purchased power costs were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), which had an estimated $23 million positive year over year impact on margin. The margin was also positively impacted by higher wholesale electric sales volumes, driven by higher demand from existing customers and new wholesale customer contracts. These increases were partially offset by a $70.8 million decrease in 2006 margin related to the refund to retail customers and the accrual for the refund to wholesale customers of a portion of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale customers. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in margin related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in operating and maintenance expense as explained below and, therefore, did not have an impact on earnings. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons also negatively impacted margin by an estimated $14 million. Gas Utility Operations Gas Utility Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 443.8 $ 522.0 (15.0 %) Purchase costs 319.8 397.4 (19.5 %) Margins 124.0 $ 124.6 (0.5 %) Throughput in therms Residential 217.0 241.6 (10.2 %) Commercial and industrial 124.6 134.7 (7.5 %) Interruptible 24.5 36.1 (32.1 %) Interdepartmental 27.6 70.8 (61.0 %) Transport 332.2 344.0 (3.4 %) Total sales in therms 725.9 827.2 (12.2 %) Weather Cooling degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Heating degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Natural gas utility revenue decreased $78.2 million (15.0%), from $522.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $443.8 million in 2006. Lower natural gas revenues were driven by a 12.2% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes, primarily related to a 61.0% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes to the electric utility for electric generation and a combined 9.2% decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers. The decrease in throughput volumes to the electric utility resulted from a decrease in the need for the electric utility to run its natural gas fired peaking generation units during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, and 87 from higher dispatch of these peaking generation units by MISO in 2005 for reliability purposes. The decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers was also driven by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005, as well as customer conservation efforts. Particularly at the beginning of 2006, customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2006, natural gas prices were actually 1.4% lower on a per unit basis, compared to 2005, resulting from a large decline in the price of natural gas in the second half of 2006, also contributing to the decrease in natural gas revenue. Partially offsetting the decrease in natural gas utility revenue was WPSCs 2006 natural gas rate increase (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to this rate increase). The natural gas utility margin decreased $0.6 million (0.5%), from $124.6 million in 2005, to $124.0 million in 2006. As discussed in more detail above, a decrease in throughput volumes to higher margin residential and commercial and industrial customers was partially offset by the natural gas rate increase. The decrease in natural gas volumes sold to the electric utility did not have a significant impact on the natural gas utility margin as sales to the electric utility have very low margins. Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, Operating Expenses (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 309.9 $ 399.6 (22.4 %) Depreciation and decommissioning expense 79.6 126.0 (36.8 %) Federal income taxes 46.5 19.3 140.9 % State income taxes 9.6 6.6 45.5 % Other Income Year ended December 31, Other Income and (Deductions) (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Allowance for equity funds used during construction $ 0.6 $ 1.5 (60.0 %) Other, net 14.7 60.6 (75.7 %) Income taxes (2.9 ) (19.5 ) (85.1 %) Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses decreased $89.7 million (22.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: Partial amortization of the regulatory liability recorded for WPSCs obligation to refund proceeds received from the liquidation of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale electric ratepayers contributed $70.8 million to the decrease in operating expenses in 2006, compared to 2005. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in operating expense related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in margin (as discussed in "Electric Utility Operations," above). Operating and maintenance related to the Kewaunee nuclear plant decreased approximately $17 million, driven by the sale of this facility in July 2005. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense related to Kewaunee did not have a significant impact on income available for common shareholders as WPSC is still purchasing power from this facility in the same amount as its original ownership interest. The cost of the power is included as a component of utility cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power. 88 In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits also decreased, in part due to the sale of Kewaunee in 2005. Software amortization increased $7.2 million, driven by the late 2005 implementation of a new customer billing system. Excluding Kewaunee, maintenance expenses at the electric utility segment were up $4.3 million. Planned maintenance was required on certain combustion turbines, and maintenance expense related to electric distribution assets also increased. Electric transmission expense increased $3.3 million. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense decreased $46.4 million (36.8%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, driven by approximately $41 million of decommissioning expense that was recorded during 2005, compared to no decommissioning expense recorded in 2006, and a $10.2 million decrease in depreciation expense resulting from the sale of Kewaunee in July 2005. Subsequent to the sale of Kewaunee, decommissioning expense is no longer recorded. In 2005, realized gains on decommissioning trust assets were substantially offset by decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice (see analysis of "Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income" below). Continued capital investment at WPSC also partially offset the overall decrease in depreciation and decommissioning expense. Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income The period over period change in these categories was primarily related to the realized gains recognized on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005. Approximately $41 million of the decrease in other income related to the realized gains recorded on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to no gain or loss recorded on nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2006, due to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in the third quarter of 2005. The nonqualified nuclear decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which closed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains recorded in 2005 was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense during the same period (discussed above). Income tax expense related to the realized gains was offset by a deferred tax benefit related to the decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on earnings in 2005, as summarized in the table below. 89 (Millions) Income/(Expense) Depreciation and decommissioning expense $ (41 ) Federal income taxes 13 State income taxes 2 Other, net 41 Income taxes (15 ) Total earnings impact $ The remaining increase in federal and state income taxes was driven by an increase in WPSCs earnings in 2006, compared to 2005. The remaining decrease in other income was primarily related to fewer land sales occurring in 2006, compared to 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million, compared to $2.6 million in 2006. 2005 Compared with 2004 WPSC Overview WPSCs earnings on common stock for the years ended December 31 are shown in the following table: WPSCs Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Earnings on common stock $ 81.4 $ 104.8 (22.3 %) WPSCs earnings on common stock were $81.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $104.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As discussed in more detail below, the following factors negatively impacted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility earnings decreased $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Electric utility earnings were negatively impacted by fuel and purchased power costs that were $13.7 million in excess of what WPSC was allowed to recover from its customers due to inefficiencies in the fuel recovery process ($10 million related to retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers). In addition, the PSCWs ruling in the 2006 rate case, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee outage and a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets. Natural gas utility earnings decreased $4.1 million, driven by higher operating and maintenance expenses and higher depreciation expense. Pre tax gains on land sales at WPSC decreased $15.0 million in 2005, compared to 2004. WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million in 2005, compared to pre tax land sale gains of $19.6 million in 2004. WPSC recognized an income tax benefit in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR. 90 Electric Utility Operations Electric Utility Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 932.9 $ 801.2 16.4 % Fuel and purchased power 390.6 249.9 56.3 % Margins $ 542.3 $ 551.3 (1.6 %) Sales in kilowatt hours 14,537.9 13,493.4 7.7 % Electric utility revenue increased $131.7 million (16.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility revenue increased largely due to an approved electric rate increase for WPSCs Wisconsin retail customers and an increase in electric sales volumes. On December 21, 2004, the PSCW approved a retail electric rate increase of $60.7 million (8.6%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was required primarily to recover increased costs related to fuel and purchased power, the construction of the Weston 4 power plant, and benefit costs. Electric sales volumes increased 7.7%, primarily due to significantly warmer weather during the 2005 cooling season, compared to the same period in 2004, and new power sales agreements that were entered into with wholesale customers. As a result of the warm weather, WPSC set all time records for peak electric demand in the second and third quarters of 2005. The electric utility margin decreased $9.0 million (1.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, largely driven by the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Prior to the sale of Kewaunee, only nuclear fuel expense was reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. Subsequent to the sale, all payments to Dominion for power purchased from Kewaunee are reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. These include both variable payments for energy delivered and fixed payments. As a result of the sale, WPSC no longer incurs operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and decommissioning expense, or interest expense for Kewaunee. Excluding the $43.2 million of fixed payments made to Dominion in 2005, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $34.2 million compared to 2004. This increase in margin was primarily related to the approved 2005 retail electric rate increase discussed above and the warm summer weather conditions, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs associated with high natural gas prices and the PSCWs disallowance of certain costs in its decision on the rate case for 2006 for WPSC (these costs were previously approved for deferral). Fuel and purchased power costs incurred in 2005 exceeded the amount recovered from ratepayers by $13.7 million (of which $10 million related to Wisconsin retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers), negatively impacting margin. The increase in fuel and purchased power costs resulted primarily from the destruction of certain natural gas production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico by hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005, driving up the per unit cost of natural gas used in generation. The quantity of power generated from WPSCs natural gas fired units was also up 162% over the prior year, driven by the warm summer weather conditions experienced during 2005, increased dispatch by the MISO for reliability purposes, and purchases through a power purchase agreement from the Fox Energy Center (which began operating in June 2005). Certain costs related to the MISO were approved for deferral. Authorization was requested from the PSCW to defer increased natural gas costs related to the hurricanes, but this request was denied, leaving the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism as the only option for recovery. However, because of the way the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism works, the $10 million increase in costs (primarily related to the combination of rising natural gas prices caused by the hurricanes and the increase in natural gas fired generation) were essentially unrecoverable since they were incurred late in the year. To mitigate the risk of unrecoverable fuel costs in 2006 due to market price volatility, WPSC employed risk management techniques pursuant to its risk policy approved by the PSCW, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of $5.5 million of increased fuel and purchased power costs related to an extended outage at Kewaunee in 2004, resulting in this deferral being written off in the fourth quarter of 2005. 91 Electric utility earnings decreased $5.1 million (7.8%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The decrease in earnings resulted from the high fuel and purchased power costs that WPSC was unable to recover from its Wisconsin retail and wholesale customers, the PSCWs disallowance of previously deferred costs related to Kewaunee, and an increase in operating and maintenance expenses. Gas Utility Operations Gas Utility Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 522.0 $ 420.9 24.0 % Purchase costs 397.4 301.9 31.6 % Margins $ 124.6 $ 119.0 4.7 % Throughput in therms 827.2 801.3 3.2 % Gas utility revenue increased $101.1 million (24.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Gas utility revenue increased primarily as a result of an increase in the per unit cost of natural gas, a natural gas rate increase, and higher natural gas throughput volumes. Natural gas costs increased 24.6% (on a per unit basis) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Following regulatory practice, WPSC passes changes in the total cost of natural gas on to customers through a purchased gas adjustment clause, as allowed by the PSCW and the MPSC. The PSCW issued an order authorizing a natural gas rate increase of $5.6 million (1.1%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was primarily driven by higher benefit costs and the cost of natural gas distribution system improvements. Natural gas throughput volumes increased 3.2%, driven by an increase in interdepartmental sales from the natural gas utility to the electric utility as a result of increased generation from combustion turbines. Higher natural gas throughput volumes from interdepartmental sales to the electric utility were partially offset by lower natural gas throughput volumes to residential customers, driven by milder weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. WPSC also believes customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. The natural gas utility margin increased $5.6 million (4.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The higher natural gas utility margin was largely due to the rate increase mentioned above. The increase in interdepartmental sales volumes to WPSCs electric utility also had a positive impact on the natural gas margin. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. Operating Expenses Operating Expenses (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 399.6 $ 386.0 3.5 % Depreciation and decommissioning expense 126.0 91.0 38.5 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses increased $13.6 million (3.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: The combined increase in pension expense, active and postretirement medical expense, salaries, and customer service expense was approximately $25 million. Transmission related expenses increased $9.9 million. 92 In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs. The increases discussed above were partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expenses of approximately $28 million related to Kewaunee, due to the sale of this facility on July 5, 2005. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense increased $35.0 million (38.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004, driven by higher gains on decommissioning trust assets prior to the sale of Kewaunee of approximately $35 million. Realized gains on decommissioning trust assets (included as a component of miscellaneous income) offset the increased decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice. Continued capital investment at WPSC also resulted in an increase in depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by a $7.0 million decrease in depreciation resulting from the sale of the Kewaunee assets in July 2005. Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income The period over period change in these account balances was primarily related to the increase in realized gains recognized on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005. Approximately $35 million of the increase in other income related to the realized gains on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets. The nonqualified nuclear decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which closed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense. Income tax expense related to the realized gains was offset by a deferred tax benefit related to the decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on earnings, as summarized in the table below. (Millions) Income/(Expense) Depreciation and decommissioning expense $ (35 ) Federal income taxes 13 State income taxes 2 Other, net 35 Income taxes (15 ) Total earnings impact $ Other income at WPSC increased $9.6 million (29.1%) in 2005 compared to 2004. Excluding the increase in other income related to higher realized gains on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005 and the decrease in other income related to higher income taxes related to these realized gains, miscellaneous income decreased approximately $10 million. The remaining decrease was primarily driven by a $15.0 million decrease in pre tax gains on land sales. WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million in 2005, compared to pre tax land sale gains of $19.6 million in 2004. This decrease was partially offset by DPCs reimbursement of $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC related to the Weston 4 power plant. The reimbursement was recorded within miscellaneous income. WPSC sold a 30% interest in the Weston 4 power plant to DPC in the fourth quarter of 2005. Proceeds received from the sale included a reimbursement for approximately $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC for capital expenditures related to DPCs portion of the facility, which were funded by WPSC in 2004 and 2005. 93 BALANCE SHEET WPSC 2006 Compared with 2005 Net utility plant increased $190.4 million (10.8%), from $1,768.7 million at December 31, 2005, to $1,959.1 million at December 31, 2006. The major contributors to the change in net utility plant are summarized below: Capital expenditures recorded in 2006 were $302.9 million, of which $146 million related to the construction of Weston 4. Depreciation expense of $79.6 million was recorded in 2006. Regulatory assets increased $23.9 million (9.0%), from $266.4 million at December 31, 2005, to $290.3 million at December 31, 2006, driven by an increase in the regulatory asset for pension and postretirement benefit items related to WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The $56.4 million long term receivable from related parties was recorded in 2006 primarily as a result of WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Investments and other assets decreased $36.5 million (24.8%), from $147.2 million at December 31, 2005, to $110.7 million at December 31, 2006. The decrease was driven by the reversal of the intangible pension asset ($39.7 million at December 31, 2005) in conjunction with WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. In total, short term and long term debt increased $109.5 million (18.8%), from $581.1 million at December 31, 2005, to $690.6 million at December 31, 2006. In 2006, additional borrowings were primarily utilized to fund capital expenditures, the largest being the construction of Weston 4. Regulatory liabilities decreased $82.6 million (23.3%), from $354.6 million at December 31, 2005, to $272.0 million at December 31, 2006, driven by a decrease in the regulatory liability related to proceeds received from the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale. WPSC amortized $70.8 million of the regulatory liability related to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust fund in 2006. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations increased $106.0 million (131.7%), from $80.5 million at December 31, 2005, to $186.5 million at December 31, 2006. The increase was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 158 on December 31, 2006 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES WPSC WPSC believes that its cash, operating cash flows, and borrowing ability because of strong credit ratings, when taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. However, WPSCs operating cash flow and access to capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside its control. In addition, WPSCs borrowing costs can be impacted by its short term and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which in part are based on certain credit measures such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. Currently, WPSC believes these ratings continue to be among the best in the energy industry (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for more information). 94 Operating Cash Flows During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $217.4 million, compared with $87.5 million in 2005. The $129.9 million year over year increase was driven by cash used for expenditures incurred in 2005 related to the unplanned outage at Kewaunee, the start up of MISO, and coal shortages (these items are discussed below and have only partially been collected from ratepayers), a $33.6 million reduction in cash required to fund working capital requirements in 2006, and $33.6 million of cash received from MGUC and MERC in 2006 related to WPSCs assumption of their pension and post retirement obligations. A decrease in the per unit cost of natural gas in 2006 compared to 2005 drove the lower working capital requirements at WPSC. During 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $87.5 million, compared with $213.9 million in 2004. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven by various expenditures incurred in 2005, which will not be collected from ratepayers until future years. In 2005, expenditures incurred related to the unplanned Kewaunee outage were approximately $49 million, expenditures incurred related to MISO were approximately $21 million, and increased costs related to coal shortages were approximately $6 million (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these regulatory assets). A $26.8 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements also contributed to the decrease in cash provided by operating activities. An increase in the per unit cost of natural gas drove the higher working capital requirements. Pension and postretirement funding also increased $10.8 million in 2005, compared to 2004. Investing Cash Flows Net cash used for investing activities was $321.2 million in 2006, compared to $64.5 million in 2005. The $256.7 million year over year increase in cash used for investing activities was related to $112.5 million of proceeds received in 2005 related to the sale of Kewaunee, $127.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from the liquidation of the related non qualified decommissioning trust, and $95.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. Also contributing to the increase was the deposit of $22.0 million of funds into an escrow account in 2006 for the payment of the outstanding principal balance of first mortgage bonds in January 2007 (discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" significant financing activities). These items were partially offset by a $97.4 million decrease in capital expenditures in 2006 (discussed below). Net cash used for investing activities was $64.5 million in 2005, compared to $252.0 million in 2004. The $187.5 million decrease in cash used for investing activities was driven by proceeds of $127.1 million received from the liquidation of the non qualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale, $112.5 million of proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, and $95.1 million of proceeds received from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. The decrease was partially offset by a $127.5 million increase in capital expenditures, primarily related to the construction of Weston 4. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows: Years Ended December 31, (Millions) 2006 2005 2004 Electric utility $ 268.4 $ 363.9 $ 210.1 Natural gas utility 34.5 36.4 62.7 WPSC Consolidated $ 302.9 $ 400.3 $ 272.8 95 The decrease in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2006 compared to 2005 was mainly due to lower capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Weston 4 is expected to be commercially operational by June 2008. The increase in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2005, as compared to 2004 was mainly due to higher capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Gas utility capital expenditures decreased primarily due to completion of the automated meter reading project. Financing Cash Flows Net cash provided by financing activities was $102.1 million in 2006, compared to net cash used for financing activities of $24.0 million in 2005. The change was primarily driven by the issuance of $147.0 million of long term debt to finance capital expenditures. In 2005, capital expenditures were primarily financed by proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, proceeds received from the liquidation of the non qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, and proceeds received from the sale to DPC of a partial interest in the Weston 4 power plant. Net cash used for financing activities was $24.0 million in 2005, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $36.9 million in 2004. Although cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2005, compared to 2004, this decrease was more than offset by a decrease in cash used for investing activities, related to proceeds received from various asset sales in 2005. Significant Financing Activities See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for detailed information on significant financing activities for WPSC. Credit Ratings See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for detailed information on WPSCs credit ratings. Future Capital Requirements and Resources Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the contractual obligations of WPSC, including its subsidiaries. Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Total Amounts Committed 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Thereafter Long term debt principal and interest payments $ 1,056.4 $ 55.0 $ 66.7 $ 216.7 $ 718.0 Operating lease obligations 18.5 3.7 5.9 4.6 4.3 Commodity purchase obligations 1,827.1 330.4 519.7 427.5 549.5 Purchase orders 319.6 279.5 40.1 Other 352.6 40.6 64.5 40.0 207.5 Total contractual cash obligations $ 3,574.2 $ 709.2 $ 696.9 $ 688.8 $ 1,479.3 Long term debt principal and interest payments represent bonds issued, notes issued, and loans made to WPSC. We record all principal obligations on the balance sheet. The costs of commodity purchase obligations are expected to be recovered in future customer rates. Purchase orders include obligations related to normal business operations and large construction obligations, including 100% of Weston 4 obligations. The sale of a 30% interest in Weston 4 to DPC was completed in November 2005, but WPSC 96 retains the legal obligation to initially remit payment to third parties for 100% of all construction costs incurred, 30% of which will subsequently be billed to DPC. Other mainly represents expected pension and postretirement funding obligations. Capital Requirements See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on capital requirements for WPSC. Capital Resources See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on capital resources for WPSC. Other Future Considerations Asset Management Strategy See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on asset management strategy. Regulatory Matters and Rate Trends See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on regulatory matters and rate trends. Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment See Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment. Income Taxes See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on income tax matters applicable to WPSC. Environmental See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of environmental considerations. Wisconsin Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act See "Other Future Considerations Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act. Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on MISO. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1(w), "New Accounting Pronouncements," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 97 GUARANTEES AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS WPSC See Note 18, "Guarantees," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding WPSCs guarantees. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES WPSC See "Critical Accounting Policies Integrys Energy Group," for information regarding WPSCs critical accounting policies. IMPACT OF INFLATION WPSC See "Impact of Inflation Integrys Energy Group," for information regarding the impact of inflation on WPSC. 98 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risks and Other Significant Risks Integrys Energy Group has potential market risk exposure related to commodity price risk (including regulatory recovery risk), interest rate risk, equity return risk, and principal preservation risk. Integrys Energy Group is also exposed to other significant risks due to the nature of our subsidiaries business and the environment in which we operate. Integrys Energy Group has risk management policies in place to monitor and assist in controlling these risks and may use derivative and other instruments to manage some of these exposures, as further described below. Commodity Price Risk and Regulatory Recovery Risk Utilities The electric utilities of Integrys Energy Group purchase natural gas and coal for use in power generation. They also purchase power on the MISO market at a price that is often reflective of the underlying cost of natural gas used in power generation. As a result, the electric utilities are subject to commodity price risk, which they manage in a number of ways, the primary method being fuel recovery mechanisms. Prudent fuel and purchased power costs are recovered under one for one recovery mechanisms by UPPCO and by the Michigan electric operations and wholesale operations of WPSC. The costs of natural gas used by the natural gas utility subsidiaries are generally also recovered under one for one recovery mechanisms. These recovery mechanisms greatly reduce commodity price risk for the utilities. WPSCs Wisconsin retail electric operations do not have a one for one recovery mechanism for price fluctuations, but annual rate cases have mitigated the year to year price risk. For intra year price risk, a "fuel window" mechanism is used to recover costs resulting from significant price volatility. Under the fuel window, if actual fuel and purchased power costs deviate by more than 2% (the range for 2007 and 2008), a rate review can be triggered. Once a rate review is triggered, rates may be reset (subject to PSCW approval) for the remainder of the year to recover, on an annualized basis, the projected increase in the cost of fuel and purchased power. For 2008, under the order approving the merger of Integrys Energy Group with Peoples Energy, WPSC will be allowed to adjust Wisconsin retail electric rates effective January 1, 2008, to take into account the impact of natural gas prices on purchased power costs, as well as changes in the price of coal, rail costs to ship the coal, and natural gas used for fuel. However, for 2008, WPSC will not be allowed to adjust retail electric rates for other changes. To manage commodity price risk, our regulated utilities enter into contracts of various durations for the purchase and or sale of natural gas, fuel for electric generation, and electricity. In addition, the electric operation of WPSC and the natural gas operation of MERC are employing risk management techniques pursuant to the risk policies approved by their respective regulators, which include the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. Nonregulated Subsidiary For purposes of risk management disclosure, Integrys Energy Services activities are classified as non trading. Integrys Energy Services has the ability to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from its merchant generation plants through the use of various financial and physical tools (including forward contracts and options). Integrys Energy Services also utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage market risks related to its retail supply portfolio. To measure commodity price risk exposure, Integrys Energy Group employs a number of controls and processes, including a value at risk (VaR) analysis of its exposures. Integrys Energy Services VaR calculation is utilized to quantify exposure to market risk associated with its marketing and trading portfolio (primarily natural gas and power positions), which includes near term positions managed under its asset management strategy through tolling agreements with the merchant generating fleet, but 99 excludes the long dated positions created by the merchant generating fleet and associated coal, sulfur dioxide emission allowances, and other ancillary fuels. VaR is used to describe a probabilistic approach to quantifying the exposure to market risk. The VaR amount represents an estimate of the potential change in fair value that could occur from changes in market factors, within a given confidence level, if an instrument or portfolio is held for a specified time period. VaR models are relatively sophisticated. However, the quantitative risk information is limited by the parameters established in creating the model. The instruments being used may have features that could trigger a potential loss in excess of the calculated amount if the changes in the underlying commodity price exceed the confidence level of the model used. VaR is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. In addition to VaR, Integrys Energy Services employs other risk measurements including mark to market valuations and stress testing. In conjunction with the VaR, these other risk measurements provide the risk management analysis for Integrys Energy Services risk exposure. Integrys Energy Services VaR is estimated using a delta normal approximation based on an one day holding period and a 95% confidence level. The delta normal approximation is based on the assumption that changes in the value of the portfolio over short time periods, such as one day, are normally distributed. Integrys Energy Services VaR calculation includes derivative financial and commodity instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps, and options as well as commodities held in inventory, such as natural gas held in storage to the extent such positions are significant. The VaR for Integrys Energy Services trading portfolio is presented in the following table: (Millions) 2006 2005 95% confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed December 31 0.9 $1.7 Average for twelve months ended December 31 1.1 1.0 High for 12 months ended December 31 1.5 1.7 Low for 12 months ended December 31 0.9 0.5 The VaR amount for Integrys Energy Services decreased $0.8 million from December 31, 2005, to December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2005, the VaR reflected extreme price volatility in the market, post hurricane production shut ins, and unusual fluctuations in the various portfolios. The average, high, and low amounts were computed using the VaR amounts at each of the four quarter ends. Interest Rate Risk Integrys Energy Group and WPSC are exposed to interest rate risk resulting from their variable rate long term debt and short term borrowings. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of variable rate obligations and continually monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC enter into long term fixed rate debt when it is advantageous to do so. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC may also enter into derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, to mitigate interest rate exposure. In the second quarter of 2005, a variable rate non recourse debt instrument used to finance the purchase of Sunbury was restructured to an Integrys Energy Group obligation. Subsequent to the restructuring, an interest rate swap that had been used to fix the interest on the Sunbury non recourse debt was re designated as a cash flow hedge, along with an additional interest rate swap, to fix the interest rate on the Integrys Energy Group obligation. Due to increases in short term borrowings during 2006, Integrys Energy Group has increased its exposure to variable interest rates. Based on the variable rate debt of Integrys Energy Group and WPSC outstanding at December 31, 2006, a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points in 2006 would have increased annual interest expense in 2006 by approximately $7.5 million at Integrys Energy Group and $0.5 million at WPSC. Comparatively, based on the variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2005, an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would have increased interest expense in 2005 by approximately $2.9 million at Integrys Energy Group and $0.9 million at WPSC. This 100 sensitivity analysis was performed assuming a constant level of variable rate debt during the period and an immediate increase in interest rates, with no other changes for the remainder of the period. In the event of a significant change in interest rates, management would take action to mitigate Integrys Energy Groups and WPSCs exposure to the change. Equity Return and Principal Preservation Risk Integrys Energy Group and WPSC currently fund liabilities related to employee benefits through various external trust funds. The trust funds are managed by numerous investment managers and hold investments in debt and equity securities. Changes in the market value of these investments can have an impact on the future expenses related to these liabilities. Integrys Energy Group maintains a qualified pension plan for employees retirement. Declines in the equity markets or declines in interest rates may result in increased future pension costs for the plan and possible future required contributions. Changes in the market value of investments related to other employee benefits could also impact future contributions. Integrys Energy Group monitors the trust fund portfolio by benchmarking the performance of the investments against certain security indices. Most of the employee benefit costs relate to Integrys Energy Groups regulated utilities. As such, the majority of these costs are recovered in customers rates, mitigating the equity return and principal preservation risk on these exposures. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Integrys Energy Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of foreign operations owned and operated in Canada and transactions denominated in Canadian dollars for the purchase and sale of natural gas and electricity by our nonregulated subsidiaries. Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and sales commitments denominated in Canadian dollars and certain Canadian dollar denominated asset and liability positions. Integrys Energy Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was not significant at December 31, 2006, or 2005. 101 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Integrys Energy Group is a diversified holding company operating through subsidiaries that provide energy and related services. Our wholly owned subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 included four regulated utilities, WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC. Another wholly owned subsidiary, WPS Resources Capital Corporation, is a holding company for our nonregulated subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services. Strategic Overview The focal point of Integrys Energy Groups business plan is the creation of long term value for our shareholders and our customers through growth, operational excellence, asset management, risk management, and the continued emphasis on reliable, competitively priced, and environmentally sound energy and energy related services. We are seeking growth of our regulated and nonregulated portfolio and placing an emphasis on regulated growth. A discussion of the essential components of our business strategy is set forth below. Maintain and Grow a Strong Regulated Utility Base We are focusing on growth in our regulated operations. A strong regulated utility base is important in order to maintain a strong balance sheet, predictable cash flows, a desired risk profile, attractive dividends, and quality credit ratings, which are critical to our success. Integrys Energy Group believes the following recent developments have helped, or will help, maintain and grow its regulated utility base: In February 2007, we consummated the merger with Peoples Energy Corporation. Upon completion of the merger, WPS Resources changed its name to Integrys Energy Group. As a result of the merger, Peoples Energy Corporation is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," for more information. WPSC is expanding its regulated generation fleet in order to meet growing electric demand and ensure continued reliability. Construction of the 500 megawatt coal fired Weston 4 base load power plant located near Wausau, Wisconsin, continues in partnership with DPC. In 2006 we completed the acquisition of Aquilas natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The addition of these regulated assets in close proximity to Integrys Energy Groups existing regulated electric and natural gas operations in Wisconsin and Michigan has transitioned Integrys Energy Group to a larger and stronger regional energy company. We have invested in ATC and received additional equity interest as consideration for funding a portion of the Duluth, Minnesota, to Wausau, Wisconsin, transmission line. WPSC continues to invest in environmental projects to improve air quality and meet the requirements set by environmental regulators. Capital projects to construct and upgrade equipment to meet or exceed required environmental standards are planned each year. Integrate Resources to Provide Operational Excellence Integrys Energy Group is committed to integrating resources of its regulated business units and also its nonregulated business units, while maintaining any and all applicable regulatory and legal restrictions. This will provide the best value to all customers by leveraging the individual capabilities and expertise of each unit and assist in lowering costs for certain activities. 39 The merger with Peoples Energy will align the best practices and expertise of both companies and result in efficiencies by eliminating redundant and overlapping functions and systems. The merger is expected to ultimately result in annual cost savings of approximately $87 million in the corporate and regulated businesses and $7 million in the nonregulated business. We anticipate achieving these ongoing synergies approximately five years from the closing date of the merger. One time costs to achieve the synergies are expected to be approximately $186 million. At our regulated business units, we are optimally sourcing work and combining resources to achieve best practices at WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC in order to achieve operational excellence and sustainable value for customers and shareholders. An initiative we call "Competitive Excellence" is being deployed across Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries. Competitive Excellence strives to eliminate work that does not provide value for customers. This will create more efficient processes, improve the effectiveness of employees, and reduce costs. Competitive Excellence will be utilized to help Integrys Energy Group achieve the anticipated synergies in the merger with Peoples Energy. Strategically Grow Nonregulated Businesses Integrys Energy Services will grow its electric and natural gas business (through strategic hiring and acquisitions, penetration in existing markets, and new product offerings) by targeting growth in areas where it has market expertise. Integrys Energy Services also focuses on optimizing the operational efficiency of its existing portfolio of assets and pursues compatible development projects that strategically fit with its customer base and market expertise. We expect our nonregulated operations to provide between 20% and 30% of our earnings, on average, in the future. The merger with Peoples Energy combines the complementary nonregulated energy marketing businesses of both companies. By combining the energy marketing businesses, we have more strategic opportunities to grow current nonregulated services by focusing on combined nonregulated retail and wholesale operations and disciplined risk management processes to create a stronger, more competitive, and better balanced growth platform for our nonregulated business. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Integrys Energy Services hired experienced personnel and put in the infrastructure to establish a wholesale electric product offering in Denver, Colorado. Operations will begin in 2007 with a focus on the MISO, PJM, Ontario (ESCO), and Western Systems Coordinating Council (WSCC) markets. Integrys Energy Services began developing a retail electric product offering in the Mid Atlantic market (Pennsylvania, Delaware, Washington DC, Maryland, and New Jersey) in 2006. Having been presented with a good opportunity to leverage its infrastructure throughout the northeastern United States, Integrys Energy Services hired experienced personnel in the Mid Atlantic region and will shortly begin signing up customers. Delivery of power to these customers is expected in the second quarter of 2007. Integrys Energy Services currently has a market presence in this region by servicing wholesale electric customers. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services began offering retail electric products to large commercial and industrial customers in Illinois, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island and delivered a total of 449,823 megawatt hours, 132,753 megawatt hours, and 36,184 megawatt hours, respectively, to each in 2006. In 2005, Integrys Energy Services was only offering natural gas products and energy management services to customers in Illinois and did not offer retail electric products in New Hampshire and Rhode Island. In September 2006, Integrys Energy Services won an Illinois auction bid to serve additional customers beginning in 2007, which will further expand Integrys Energy Services wholesale electric business. 40 Integrys Energy Services began developing a product offering in the Texas retail electric market in late 2005. Entry into Texas, with its thriving market structure, provides Integrys Energy Services with an opportunity to leverage the infrastructure and capability Integrys Energy Services developed to provide products and services that it believes customers will value. Integrys Energy Services started to deliver power to these customers in July 2006, and delivered a total of 177,692 megawatt hours to these customers in 2006. Integrys Energy Services continues to increase both its customer base (by signing up new enrollments) and volumes in the Texas retail electric market. Integrys Energy Services began marketing electric products to customers in Massachusetts in 2005 and has had initial success in signing up commercial and industrial customers. Retail volumes contributed by Massachusetts in 2006 were 184,560 megawatt hours. Integrys Energy Services continues to grow its retail natural gas business in Canada and Ohio through the addition of new customers. Place Strong Emphasis on Asset and Risk Management Our asset management strategy calls for the continuous assessment of our existing assets as well as a focus on the acquisition of assets that complement our existing business and strategy. This strategy also calls for a focus on the disposition of assets, including plants and entire business units, which are either no longer strategic to ongoing operations, are not performing as needed, or the disposition of which would reduce our risk profile. We maintain a portfolio approach to risk and earnings. The combination of Integrys Energy Group and Peoples Energy creates a larger, stronger, and more competitive regional energy company. This merger, along with the 2006 acquisition of the Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations from Aquila, diversifies the companys regulatory risk due to the expansion of utility operations to multiple jurisdictions. On February 21, 2007, subsequent to its merger with Peoples Energy Corporation, Integrys Energy Group announced its commitment to the sale of Peoples Energy Corporations oil and natural gas production business. The divesture of the oil and natural gas production business will lower Integrys Energy Groups business risk profile and provide funds to reduce debt. In 2007, Integrys Energy Services will develop a new landfill gas project, Winnebago Energy Center Development. Winnebago Energy Center Development is a 6.5 megawatt project near Rockford, Illinois, and will consist of installing gas cleanup equipment and engines to collect and burn landfill gas at the site to generate electricity. Integrys Energy Services will then sell the electricity in the PJM marketplace. The project is initially expected to cost approximately $9 million and, if we have initial project success, has the potential to expand to an 8 megawatt facility in 2009. In January 2007, Integrys Energy Services sold WPS Niagara Generation, LLC to a subsidiary of US Renewables Group, LLC for approximately $31 million. WPS Niagara Generation, LLC owned a 50 megawatt Niagara Falls generation facility located in the Niagara Mowhawk Frontier region in Niagara Falls, New York. The pre tax gain on the sale was approximately $25 million and was recorded in the first quarter of 2007. On July 26, 2006, Integrys Energy Services completed the sale of Sunbury Generation, LLC to Corona Power, LLC, for approximately $34 million. Sunbury Generations primary asset was the Sunbury generation facility located in Pennsylvania. The transaction resulted in a pre tax gain of approximately $20 million in 2006. In addition, approximately $13 million of cash tax benefits are expected to be accelerated over the next few years, depending on the use of the alternative minimum tax credits. Integrys Energy Services management had been evaluating Sunburys future since 2004 and after carefully reviewing alternatives and current business conditions, determined that the sale was the best alternative. 41 In April 2006, a subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group completed the sale of its one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC to Northern Border Partners, LP for $38.5 million. The transaction resulted in a pre tax gain of $6.2 million which was recorded in the second quarter of 2006. We believe the sale provides a good opportunity to redeploy the proceeds into other investment opportunities, providing value to our shareholders. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services sold WPS ESI Gas Storage, LLC, which owns a natural gas storage field located in the Kimball Township, St. Clair County, Michigan, for approximately $20 million and recognized a pre tax gain of $9.0 million in the second quarter of 2006. Integrys Energy Services utilized this facility primarily for structured wholesale natural gas transactions as natural gas storage spreads presented arbitrage opportunities. Integrys Energy Services was not actively marketing this facility for sale, but believed the price offered was above the value it would realize from continued ownership of the facility. We continue to evaluate alternatives for the sale of real estate holdings we have identified as no longer needed for our operations. Our risk management strategy, in addition to asset risk management, includes the management of market, credit, and operational risk through the normal course of business. Forward purchases and sales of electric capacity, energy, natural gas, and other commodities allow for opportunities to secure prices in a volatile energy market. Business Operations Our regulated and nonregulated businesses have distinct competencies and business strategies. They offer differing energy and energy related products and services, and experience a wide array of risks and challenges. Our regulated utilities derive revenues primarily from the purchase, production, distribution, and sale of electricity and the purchase, distribution, and sale of natural gas to retail customers. The regulated utilities also provide wholesale electric service to numerous utilities and cooperatives for resale. Our nonregulated business offers natural gas, electric, and alternate fuel supplies, as well as energy management and consulting services, to retail and wholesale customers in various areas of the United States and portions of Canada. The market risks and challenges of our business are discussed in Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Integrys Energy Services marketing and trading operations manage power and natural gas procurement as an integrated portfolio with its retail and wholesale sales commitments and sale of generation from power plants. The table below discloses future natural gas and electric sales volumes under contract at Integrys Energy Services as of December 31, 2006. Integrys Energy Services expects that its ultimate sales volumes in 2007 and beyond will exceed the volumes shown in the table below as it continues to seek growth opportunities and as existing customers who do not have long term contracts continue to buy their short term requirements from Integrys Energy Services. Forward Contracted Volumes at 12/31/2006 (1) 01/01/07 to 12/31/07 01/01/08 to 12/31/08 After 12/31/08 Wholesale sales volumes billion cubic feet 135.6 19.2 6.7 Retail sales volumes billion cubic feet 193.5 50.5 37.0 Total natural gas sales volumes 329.1 69.7 43.7 Wholesale sales volumes million kilowatt hours 30,564 11,096 8,036 Retail sales volumes million kilowatt hours 6,846 2,421 1,674 Total electric sales volumes 37,410 13,517 9,710 (1) These tables represent physical sales contracts for natural gas and electric power for delivery or settlement in future periods; however, there is a possibility that some of the contracted volumes reflected in the above table will be net settled. Management has no reason to believe that gross margins that will be generated by these contracts will vary significantly from those experienced historically. 42 For comparative purposes, the future natural gas and electric sales volumes under contract at December 31, 2005, are shown below. The actual electric and natural gas sales volumes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, and 2005 are disclosed within Results of Operations Integrys Energy Group, Integrys Energy Services Segment Operations below. Forward Contracted Volumes at 12/31/2005 (1) 01/01/06 to 12/31/06 01/01/07 to 12/31/07 After 12/31/07 Wholesale sales volumes billion cubic feet 107.3 13.2 4.3 Retail sales volumes billion cubic feet 171.1 39.7 40.3 Total natural gas sales volumes 278.4 52.9 44.6 Wholesale sales volumes million kilowatt hours 13,240 4,144 3,160 Retail sales volumes million kilowatt hours 1,962 391 126 Total electric sales volumes 15,202 4,535 3,286 (1) This table represents physical sales contracts for natural gas and electric power for delivery or settlement in future periods; however, there is a possibility that some of the contracted volumes reflected in the above table could be net settled. Both retail and wholesale forward natural gas volumes under contract have increased as of December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. The increase in retail natural gas volumes under contract was driven by lower natural gas prices providing opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to enter into supply contracts with customers in existing markets. Increased volatility in natural gas prices and high natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas) increased the profitability of natural gas transactions, driving the increase in wholesale natural gas sales volumes under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Wholesale electric volumes under contract increased significantly at December 31, 2006. The increase in wholesale electric sales volumes was mostly related to the continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services wholesale electric business, with a focus on physical, customer based purchase and sale agreements in areas where it has market expertise. The emphasis Integrys Energy Services is placing on its originated wholesale customer electric business is producing encouraging results and, as a result, Integrys Energy Services has recently entered into numerous contracts to provide electricity to wholesale customers in the future. Retail electric sales volumes under contract have also increased at December 31, 2006. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services expanded its retail electric product offering in Illinois, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Texas. Integrys Energy Services previously did not offer retail electric products, or offered few products, to these areas and expects to continue to build retail electric sales in these markets by continuing to attract new customers. Integrys Energy Services employs credit policies to mitigate its exposure to credit risk. As a result of these credit policies, Integrys Energy Services has not experienced significant write offs from its large wholesale counterparties to date. The table below summarizes Integrys Energy Services wholesale counterparty credit exposure, categorized by maturity date, as of December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services had exposure with one investment grade counterparty that was more than 10% of net exposure. Net exposure with this counterparty was $51.7 million and is included in the table below. 43 Counterparty Rating (Millions) (1) Exposure (2) Exposure Less Than 1 Year Exposure 1 to 3 Years Exposure 4 to 5 years Investment grade regulated utility $ 84.1 $ 64.0 $ 20.0 $ 0.1 Investment grade other 252.6 200.6 26.7 25.3 Non investment grade regulated utility Non investment grade other Non rated regulated utility (3) 1.5 1.5 Non rated other (3) 88.4 69.0 19.1 0.3 Exposure $ 426.6 $ 335.1 $ 65.8 $ 25.7 (1) The investment and non investment grade categories are determined by publicly available credit ratings of the counterparty or the rating of any guarantor, whichever is higher. Investment grade counterparties are those with a senior unsecured Moodys rating of Baa3 or above or a Standard & Poors rating of BBB or above. (2) Exposure considers netting of accounts receivable and accounts payable where netting agreements are in place as well as netting mark to market exposure. Exposure is before consideration of collateral from counterparties. Collateral, in the form of cash and letters of credit, received from counterparties totaled $99.7 million at December 31, 2006, $63.8 million from investment grade counterparties, and $35.9 million from non rated counterparties. (3) Non rated counterparties include stand alone companies, as well as unrated subsidiaries of rated companies without parental credit support. These counterparties are subject to an internal credit review process. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP 2006 Compared with 2005 Integrys Energy Group Overview Integrys Energy Groups 2006 and 2005 results of operations are shown in the following table: Integrys Energy Groups Results (Millions, except share amounts) 2006 2005 Change Income available for common shareholders $ 155.8 $ 157.4 (1.0 %) Basic earnings per share $ 3.68 $ 4.11 (10.5 %) Diluted earnings per share $ 3.67 $ 4.07 (9.8 %) Income available for common shareholders was $155.8 million ($3.67 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $157.4 million ($4.07 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2005. Significant factors impacting the change in earnings and earnings per share were as follows (and are discussed in more detail thereafter): 44 Electric utility earnings increased $21.3 million, from $64.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $85.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Fuel and purchased power costs that were less than what was recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), contributed an estimated $14 million after tax, year over year increase in earnings. In addition, a PSCW ruling, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage as well as a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets in 2005. The write off of these regulatory assets in 2005 resulted in an after tax reduction in earnings in 2005 of approximately $8 million. The retail electric rate increases at both WPSC and UPPCO also had a positive year over year impact on earnings. Prior to its 2006 rate increase, UPPCO did not have a rate increase since 2002. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006, compared to 2005, which had an estimated $9 million year over year negative after tax impact on electric utility earnings. Results from natural gas utility operations decreased $15.5 million, from earnings of $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to a net loss of $2.3 million in 2006. A combined net loss of approximately $11 million related to the results of operations of MGUC (natural gas distribution operations acquired on April 1, 2006) and MERC (natural gas distribution operations acquired on July 1, 2006). Included in the net loss incurred by MGUC and MERC were $11.8 million ($7.1 million after tax) of external pre tax transition costs that were incurred by these natural gas utilities. The net loss recognized at MGUC and MERC in excess of transition costs incurred can be attributed to not owning these operations during the 2006 heating season (from January through March) and warmer than normal weather conditions during the last few months of 2006. From the acquisition date through December 31, 2006, actual heating degree days were 13.9% and 7.3% below normal for MGUC and MERC, respectively. Earnings at WPSCs natural gas utility also decreased approximately $4 million, driven by unfavorable weather conditions and customer conservation efforts. Integrys Energy Services earnings decreased $1.8 million, from $74.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $72.3 million for the same period in 2006. Lower earnings were driven by an $11.0 million ($6.6 million after tax) increase in interest expense due to higher working capital requirements primarily related to growth in Integrys Energy Services natural gas operations, a $10.6 million ($6.4 million after tax) increase in miscellaneous expenses (primarily related to increased tons procured from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility and the fact that Integrys Energy Services received no royalty payments from this investment in 2006), and a $4.2 million after tax decrease in income from discontinued operations. These factors were partially offset by a $14.4 million ($8.6 million after tax) increase in margin (including an $11.1 million pre tax decrease in gains on derivative instruments used to protect the value of Section 29/45K tax credits), a $6.7 million ($4.0 million after tax) decrease in operating expenses (primarily related to the recognition of a $9.0 million pre tax gain on the sale of Integrys Energy Services Kimball storage field in the second quarter of 2006), and a $3.4 million increase in Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility. See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed analysis of how Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility impacted results of operations. Results from Holding Company and Other Segment Operations decreased $5.6 million, from earnings of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to earnings of $0.3 million for the same period in 2006. External transition expenses of $2.2 million were recorded in 2006 related to consulting fees in conjunction with our merger with Peoples Energy. 45 Diluted earnings per share was impacted by the items discussed above as well as an increase of 3.7 million shares (9.6%) in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. Integrys Energy Group issued 1.9 million shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 and also issued 2.7 million shares of common stock in May 2006 in order to settle its forward equity agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. Additional shares were also issued under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock based employee benefit plans. Overview of Utility Operations In 2006, utility operations included (1) the electric utility segment, consisting of the electric operations of WPSC and UPPCO, and (2) the gas utility segment, consisting of the natural gas operations of WPSC, MGUC, and MERC. Electric Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Electric Utility Year Ended December 31, Segment Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 1,099.4 $ 1,037.1 6.0 % Fuel and purchased power costs 551.0 444.2 24.0 % Margins $ 548.4 $ 592.9 (7.5 %) Sales in kilowatt hours Residential 3,144.8 3,127.4 0.6 % Commercial and industrial 8,645.2 8,641.8 % Wholesale 4,093.1 3,849.2 6.3 % Other 42.2 41.7 1.2 % Total sales in kilowatt hours 15,925.3 15,660.1 1.7 % Weather WPSC Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Electric utility revenue increased $62.3 million (6.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, largely due to the approved 2006 electric rate increases for WPSC and UPPCO retail electric customers (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these rate increases) and rate increases for WPSCs wholesale customers resulting from the formula rate mechanism in place for these customers. Electric sales volumes also increased 1.7%, primarily related to a 6.3% increase in sales volumes to wholesale customers due to higher demand and new wholesale contracts. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, partially offset the increases discussed above. The electric utility margin decreased $44.5 million (7.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The decrease in the electric utility margin was driven by a $48.7 million (9.0%) decrease in WPSCs electric margin, primarily related to the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement, partially offset by an approximate $4 million increase in UPPCOs margin (driven by its first retail electric rate increase since 2002). Excluding the $54.2 million increase in fixed payments made to Dominion Energy Kewaunee during the year ended December 31, 2006, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $5.5 million, driven by the retail electric and wholesale rate increases (discussed above). In addition, fuel and purchased power costs were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), which had an estimated $23 million positive year over year impact on margin. The margin was also positively impacted by higher wholesale electric sales volumes, driven by higher demand from existing customers and new wholesale 46 customer contracts. These increases were partially offset by a $70.8 million decrease in 2006 margin related to the refund to retail customers and the accrual for the refund to wholesale customers of a portion of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in margin related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in operating and maintenance expense as explained below and, therefore, did not have an impact on earnings. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons also negatively impacted margin by an estimated $14 million. Gas Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Year Ended December 31, Gas Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 676.9 $ 522.0 29.7 % Purchased natural gas costs 493.8 397.4 24.3 % Margins $ 183.1 $ 124.6 47.0 % Throughput in therms Residential 351.5 241.6 45.5 % Commercial and industrial 190.6 134.7 41.5 % Interruptible 40.1 36.1 11.1 % Interdepartmental 27.6 70.8 (61.0 %) Transport 657.5 344.0 91.1 % Total sales in therms 1,267.3 827.2 53.2 % Weather WPSC Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Natural gas utility revenue increased $154.9 million (29.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, due to the acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan by MGUC on April 1, 2006, and the acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in Minnesota by MERC on July 1, 2006. These acquisitions contributed approximately $233 million to natural gas utility revenue and approximately 541 million therms to natural gas throughput volumes during the year ended December 31, 2006. WPSCs natural gas utility revenue was $443.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $522.0 million in 2005. Lower natural gas revenues at WPSC were driven by a 12.2% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes, primarily related to a 61.0% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes to the electric utility for electric generation and a 9.2% decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers. The decrease in throughput volumes to the electric utility resulted from a decrease in the need for the electric utility to run its natural gas fired peaking generation units during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, and from higher dispatch of these peaking generation units by MISO in 2005 for reliability purposes. The decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers was also driven by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005, as well as customer conservation efforts. Particularly at the beginning of 2006, customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2006, natural gas prices were actually 1.4% lower on a per unit basis, compared to 2005, resulting from a large decline in the price of natural gas in the second half of 2006, also contributing to the decrease in natural gas revenue. Partially offsetting the decrease in WPSCs natural gas utility revenue was the 2006 natural gas rate increase at WPSC (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to this rate increase). The natural gas utility margin increased $58.5 million (47.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. The combined margin provided by MGUC and MERC was approximately $59 million, while WPSCs natural gas utility margin decreased $0.6 million. As discussed in more detail above, a decrease in throughput volumes to higher margin residential and commercial and industrial customers was partially offset by the natural gas rate increase. The decrease in natural gas 47 volumes sold to the electric utility did not have a significant impact on WPSCs natural gas utility margin as sales to the electric utility have very low margins. Overview of Integrys Energy Services Operations Integrys Energy Services offers natural gas, electric, and alternative fuel supplies, as well as asset management and consulting services, to retail and wholesale customers in the Midwest and Northeastern United States, Texas, and portions of Canada adjacent to the markets Integrys Energy Services serves in the United States. Wholesale electric products and services are offered in developed markets throughout the United States. Integrys Energy Services also owns several merchant generation plants, primarily in the Midwest and Northeastern United States and adjacent portions of Canada. Operationally, 2006 was very productive for Integrys Energy Services. Energy prices fell considerably in the latter half of the year, which created opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to further penetrate existing markets and sign up customers in new markets, adding value to Integrys Energy Services retail electric and retail natural gas portfolios. Through the use of derivative instruments and other supply contracts, Integrys Energy Services was able to secure margin on future sales to these customers, which will be recognized in future periods. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) 2006 2005 Change Nonregulated revenues $ 5,159.1 $ 5,314.9 (2.9 %) Nonregulated cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power 4,976.7 5,146.9 (3.3 %) Margins $ 182.4 $ 168.0 8.6 % Margin Detail Electric and other margins (other margins mostly relate to mark to market and realized losses on oil options of $2.4 million during 2006, compared to mark to market and realized gains on oil hedges of $8.7 million during 2005) $ 61.2 $ 106.4 (42.5 %) Natural gas margins $ 121.2 $ 61.6 96.8 % Gross volumes (includes volumes both physically delivered and net settled) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours 58,794.9 44,778.3 31.3 % Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours 6,554.1 8,021.0 (18.3 %) Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet 402.2 338.1 19.0 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet 314.5 276.6 13.7 % Physical volumes (includes only transactions settled physically for the periods shown) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 968.2 1,515.6 (36.1 %) Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 4,565.6 6,594.5 (30.8 %) Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 373.5 327.8 13.9 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 264.0 227.7 15.9 % * Represents gross physical volumes Integrys Energy Services revenue decreased $155.8 million (2.9%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, primarily related to a decrease in both physical retail and wholesale electric sales volumes and a decrease in energy prices during the latter half of 2006. The decrease in physical retail electric sales volumes was driven by a decrease in retail electric sales volumes in Ohio and Michigan. Integrys Energy Services retail electric aggregation sales in Ohio ended on December 31, 2005, with the expiration of Integrys Energy Services contracts with Ohio aggregation customers. Regarding Michigan retail electric operations, Integrys Energy Services had many customers return to their utility supplier beginning in 2005 and continuing into 2006 as a result of high wholesale energy prices and utility tariff changes, which significantly lowered the savings that customers could obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. In other areas, lower wholesale energy prices in the latter half of 48 2006 allowed Integrys Energy Services to sign up a significant number of new retail customers, which will increase sales and contribute to margin in later years. The lower prices also increase the likelihood that Integrys Energy Services may be able to re contract some of its Michigan retail electric business. The decrease in physically settled wholesale electric sales volumes was driven by a trend toward more financially settled transactions in 2006, compared to 2005. Integrys Energy Services margins increased $14.4 million (8.6%), from $168.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $182.4 million for 2006. Many items contributed to the year over year net increase in margin and, as a result, a table has been provided to summarize significant changes. Variances included under "Other significant items" in the table below are generally related to the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions. All variances depicted in the table are discussed in more detail below the table. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) Increase (Decrease) in Margin in 2006 Compared to 2005 Electric and other margins Realized gains on structured origination contracts $ 6.3 Realized retail electric margin (2.9) All other wholesale electric operations 4.4 Other significant items: Oil option activity (11.1) Retail mark to market activity (27.3) Liquidation of an electric supply contract in 2005 (14.6) Net decrease in electric and other margins (45.2) Natural gas margins Realized natural gas margins 32.2 Other significant items: Mass market supply options (8.4) Spot to forward differential 5.4 Other mark to market activity 30.4 Net increase in natural gas margins 59.6 Net increase in Integrys Energy Services margin $14.4 Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins decreased $45.2 million (42.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The following items were the most significant contributors to the net change in Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins: Realized gains on structured origination contracts Integrys Energy Services electric and other margin increased $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, due to realized gains from origination contracts involving the sale of energy through structured transactions to wholesale customers in the Midwest and Northeastern United States. These origination contracts were not in place in 2005. Integrys Energy Services continues to expand its wholesale origination capabilities with a focus on physical, customer based purchase and sale agreements in areas where it has market expertise. Integrys Energy Services provided products to large origination customers desiring to take advantage of falling energy prices. Realized retail electric margin The realized margin from retail electric operations decreased $2.9 million, driven by an $8.2 million decrease in margin from retail electric operations in Ohio and a $3.7 million decrease in margin from retail electric operations in northern Maine. These decreases were partially offset by a $4.4 million increase in margin from retail electric operations in Michigan, a $2.8 million increase in margin from retail electric operations in New York, and a positive margin contribution from retail electric operations in Texas and Illinois. Integrys Energy Services retail electric aggregation sales in Ohio ended on December 31, 2005, with the expiration of Integrys Energy Services contracts with Ohio aggregation customers. Integrys Energy Services remains prepared to offer future retail electric service in Ohio as the regulatory climate and market conditions allow. The decrease in margin from operations in northern Maine was driven by higher supply costs 49 in part tied to diesel fuel prices. A portion of the electricity purchased by Integrys Energy Services to supply customers in northern Maine is derived from burning wood chips. The cost to transport wood chips, as well as the operating costs of the machine utilized to make the wood chips, were negatively impacted by high diesel fuel prices. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services shared in this diesel fuel exposure with the generation supplier. Integrys Energy Services was awarded a new contract to serve customers in northern Maine that began on January 1, 2007. Fuel sharing was not contemplated in any of the related energy supply contracts that will be utilized to serve northern Maine load in 2007. The increase in margin from retail electric operations in Michigan was driven by the elimination of the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment (SECA) effective March 31, 2006. See Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to SECA. Integrys Energy Services began developing a product offering in the Texas retail electric market in 2005. Entry into Texas, with its thriving market structure, provides Integrys Energy Services with an opportunity to leverage the infrastructure and capability it developed. Integrys Energy Services started to deliver power to these customers in July 2006. Integrys Energy Services continues to increase both its customer base (by contracting new enrollments) and volumes in the Texas retail electric market. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services began offering retail electric products to large commercial and industrial customers in Illinois. In 2005, Integrys Energy Services was only offering natural gas products and energy management services to customers in Illinois. All other wholesale electric operations A $4.4 million increase in margin from other wholesale electric operations was driven by an increase in net realized and unrealized gains related to trading activities utilized to optimize the value of Integrys Energy Services merchant generation fleet and customer supply portfolios. As part of its trading activities, Integrys Energy Services seeks to generate profits from the volatility of the price of electricity, by purchasing or selling various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts, options, financial transmission rights, and capacity contracts) in established wholesale markets (primarily in the northeastern portion of the United States where Integrys Energy Services has market expertise), under risk management policies set by management and approved by Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors. Integrys Energy Services also seeks to maximize the value of its generation and customer supply portfolios to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from these assets through the use of various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts, options, financial transmission rights, and capacity contracts). Period by period variability in the margin contributed by Integrys Energy Services optimization strategies and trading activities is expected due to constantly changing market conditions and differences in the timing of gains and losses recognized on derivative and non derivative contracts, as required by generally accepted accounting principles. Using a diverse mix of products and markets, combined with disciplined execution and exit strategies, has allowed Integrys Energy Services to consistently generate economic value and earnings from these activities while staying within the value at risk (VaR) limits authorized by Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors. For more information on VaR, see "Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Oil option activity A decrease in the fair value of derivative instruments utilized to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006 and 2007 contributed $11.1 million to the decrease in its electric and other margin. The derivative instruments have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value are recorded currently in earnings. The decrease in the fair value of these instruments in 2006 reflects declining oil prices. Declining prices are generally favorable as they improve the overall profitability of the unhedged portion of our synthetic fuel operations, and present opportunities to produce more synthetic fuel while mitigating the risk of future oil price increases through the use of derivative instruments. The benefit from Section 29/45K federal tax credits during a year is primarily based upon estimated annual synthetic fuel production levels, the ability to sell the synthetic fuel that is produced, annual taxable earnings, and any impact annual oil prices may have on the realization of Section 29/45K federal tax credits. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in different years, compared to any tax credit phase outs that may be recognized. For more information on Section 29/45K federal tax credits, see Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies." 50 Retail mark to market activity Retail mark to market activity contributed a $27.3 million decrease to the electric and other margin in 2006, compared to 2005. In 2005, $2.6 million of mark to market gains were recognized on retail electric customer supply contracts, compared to $24.7 million of mark to market losses recognized on these contracts in 2006. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to customer supply contracts (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the customer sales contracts, which are not considered derivative instruments. These mark to market gains and losses will reverse as the related customer sales contracts settle. Due to the mix of contracts that require mark to market accounting and those that do not, Integrys Energy Services generally experiences mark to market losses on supply contracts in periods of declining wholesale prices and mark to market gains in periods of increasing wholesale prices. Declining prices are generally favorable as they increase Integrys Energy Services ability to offer customers contracts that are both favorably priced and lower than the prices offered by regulated utilities, but can cause short term volatility in earnings. Liquidation of an electric supply contract in 2005 In the fourth quarter of 2005, an electricity supplier exiting the wholesale market in Maine requested that Integrys Energy Services liquidate a firm contract to buy power in 2006 and 2007. At that time, Integrys Energy Services recognized an $8.2 million gain related to the liquidation of the contract and entered into a new contract with another supplier for firm power in 2006 and 2007 to supply its customers in Maine. The cost to purchase power under the new contract is more than the cost under the liquidated contract. As a result of the termination of this contract, purchased power costs to serve customers in Maine were $6.4 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2006, and will be slightly higher than the original contracted amount in 2007. The liquidation of this contract had a $14.6 million negative impact on the year over year change in the electric and other margin, resulting from higher purchased power costs recorded under the new contract in 2006, compared to a gain recognized on the liquidation of the original contract in 2005. Realized natural gas margins Realized natural gas margins increased $32.2 million, from $60.4 million in 2005 to $92.6 million in 2006. The majority of this increase, $26.6 million, related to an increase in retail natural gas margin, driven by continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services Canadian retail operations (including higher sales volumes to existing customers as well as new customer additions). Margins from retail natural gas operations in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Illinois also increased, as Integrys Energy Services was able to better manage supply to these customers, aided by favorable market conditions. The remaining $5.6 million increase in realized natural gas margins related to wholesale operations, driven by an increase in structured wholesale natural gas transactions attributed to an increase in the volatility of the price of natural gas as well as high natural gas storage spreads during most of 2006. Mass market supply options Options utilized to manage supply costs for mass market customers, which expire in varying months through May 2007, had an $8.4 million negative year over year impact on Integrys Energy Services natural gas margin. In 2006, these options had a $5.5 million negative impact on Integrys Energy Services natural gas margin (commensurate with declining natural gas prices), compared to a $2.9 million positive impact on margin in 2005 (commensurate with higher natural gas prices in the latter half of 2005). These contracts are utilized to reduce the risk of price movements, customer migration, and changes in consumer consumption patterns. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the options (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the customer contracts. Full requirements natural gas contracts with Integrys Energy Services customers are not considered derivatives and, therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on these contracts until settlement. The option mark to market gains and losses will reverse as the related customer sales contracts settle. 51 Spot to forward differential The natural gas storage cycle (described in more detail below) accounted for a $5.4 million year over year increase in the natural gas margin (for the year ended December 31, 2006, the natural gas storage cycle had a $0.2 million positive impact on margin, compared with a $5.2 million negative impact on margin for the same period in 2005). Other mark to market activity Mark to market gains on derivatives not previously discussed totaling $34.0 million were recognized in 2006, compared to the recognition of $3.6 million of mark to market gains on other derivative instruments in 2005. A significant portion of the difference relates to changes in the fair market value of basis swaps utilized to mitigate market price risk associated with natural gas transportation contracts and certain natural gas sales contracts as well as swaps utilized to mitigate market price risk related to certain natural gas storage contracts. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the basis and other swaps (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding mark to market offset related to the physical natural gas transportation contracts, the natural gas sales contracts, or the natural gas storage contracts (as these contracts are not considered derivative instruments). Therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on the transportation contracts, customer sales contracts, or natural gas storage contracts until physical settlement of these contracts occurs. Overview of Holding Company and Other Segment Operations Financial results at the Holding Company and Other segment decreased $5.6 million, from net income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to a net income of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, driven by a $12.9 million increase in pre tax interest expense (net of intercompany interest income) and a $9.2 million pre tax increase in operating expenses. Higher interest expense was driven by an increase in short term and long term borrowings required to fund the acquisition of natural gas operations in Michigan and Minnesota, and working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. The increase in operating expenses was primarily related to business expansion activities related to the merger with Peoples Energy. These items were partially offset by an increase in other income, driven by a $13.9 million increase in pre tax earnings from ATC (pre tax equity earnings from ATC increased to $39.0 million in 2006, from $25.1 million in 2005, a $6.2 million pre tax gain recognized from the 2006 sale of Integrys Energy Groups one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, partially offset by a decrease in pre tax gains recognized from land sales. 52 Operating Expenses Integrys Energy Groups Operating Expenses (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 503.7 $ 535.4 (5.9 %) Depreciation and decommissioning expense 106.1 142.3 (25.4 %) Taxes other than income 57.4 47.3 21.4 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses decreased $31.7 million (5.9%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The components of operating and maintenance expense are as follows: Operating and maintenance expense at the electric utility segment decreased $85.1 million, from $362.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $277.2 million for the same period in 2006, driven by the following: Partial amortization of the regulatory liability recorded for WPSCs obligation to refund proceeds received from the liquidation of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale electric ratepayers contributed $70.8 million to the decrease in operating expenses in 2006, compared to 2005. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in operating expense related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in margin (as discussed in "Electric Utility Segment Operations," above). Operating and maintenance related to the Kewaunee nuclear plant decreased approximately $17 million, driven by the sale of this facility in July 2005. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense related to Kewaunee did not have a significant impact on income available for common shareholders as WPSC is still purchasing power from this facility in the same amount as its original ownership interest. The cost of the power is included as a component of utility cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the 2005 sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits also decreased in part due to the sale of Kewaunee in 2005. Software amortization increased $5.4 million, driven by the late 2005 implementation of a new customer billing system. Excluding Kewaunee, maintenance expenses at the electric utility segment were up $4.9 million. Planned maintenance was required on certain combustion turbines, and maintenance expense related to electric distribution assets also increased. Electric transmission expense increased $4.1 million. Operating and maintenance expense at the natural gas utility segment increased $54.0 million, from $71.3 million in 2005, to $125.3 million in 2006. The increase in operating and maintenance expense at the natural gas utility segment was driven by $56.6 million of combined operating and maintenance expense incurred by MGUC and MERC. Of the $56.6 million of operating and maintenance expense incurred by MGUC and MERC during the year ended December 31, 2006, $11.8 million related to external transition expenses, primarily for the start up of outsourcing activities and other legal and 53 consulting fees. Partially offsetting the increase in operating and maintenance expenses related to MGUC and MERC, operating expenses related to WPSCs natural gas operations decreased, driven by decreases in various employee benefit related expenses. Operating and maintenance expenses at Integrys Energy Services decreased $6.9 million, from $91.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, to $85.0 million for the same period in 2006, driven primarily by a $9.0 million pre tax gain recognized on the sale of Integrys Energy Services Kimball storage field in the second quarter of 2006. This gain was partially offset by higher payroll and benefit costs related to an increase in the number of employees as a result of continued business expansion activities. The remaining increase in operating and maintenance expense relates to Holding Company and Other Segment operations and was driven by legal and consulting expenses related to business expansion activities, primarily attributed to our merger with Peoples Energy. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense decreased $36.2 million (25.4%), for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, as follows: (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Electric Utility Segment $ 66.0 $ 113.4 (41.8 %) Gas Utility Segment 28.7 17.4 64.9 % Integrys Energy Services 10.7 11.2 (4.5 %) Holding Company and Other Segment 0.7 0.3 133.3 % The $47.4 million year over year decrease in depreciation expense at the electric utility segment was driven by approximately $41 million of decommissioning expense that was recorded during 2005, compared to no decommissioning expense recorded in 2006, and a $10.2 million decrease in depreciation expense resulting from the sale of Kewaunee in July 2005. Subsequent to the sale of Kewaunee, decommissioning expense is no longer recorded. In 2005, realized gains on decommissioning trust assets were substantially offset by decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice (see analysis of "Other Income (Expense)" below). An increase in depreciation expense related to continued capital investment at the electric utility partially offset the overall decrease in depreciation and decommissioning expense. The $11.3 million year over year increase in depreciation expense at the gas utility segment was driven by a combined $10.4 million of depreciation expense recorded by MGUC and MERC for the year ended December 31, 2006. Continued capital investment at WPSCs natural gas utility also contributed to the increase in depreciation expense. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased $10.1 million (21.4%), for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, as follows: (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Electric Utility Segment $ 41.6 $ 38.5 8.1 % Gas Utility Segment 11.8 6.1 93.4 % Integrys Energy Services 3.7 2.4 54.2 % Holding Company and Other Segment 0.3 0.3 % The increase in taxes other than income was driven by $4.8 million of taxes other than income recorded by MGUC and MERC, primarily related to property taxes, and a $3.1 million increase in taxes other than income recorded by the electric utility, driven by an increase in gross receipts tax that resulted from an increase in electric utility revenue. 54 Other Income (Expense) Integrys Energy Groups Year Ended December 31, Other Income (Expense) (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Miscellaneous income $ 42.2 $ 86.2 (51.0 %) Interest expense (99.2 ) (62.0 ) 60.0 % Minority interest 3.8 4.5 (15.6 %) Other (expense) income $ (53.2 ) $ 28.7 Miscellaneous Income Miscellaneous income decreased $44.0 million (51.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. The decrease in miscellaneous income was driven by approximately $41 million of realized gains on nuclear decommissioning trust assets recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to these realized gains was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in decommissioning expense in 2005. Integrys Energy Services equity investment in a synthetic fuel facility contributed an additional $11.3 million decrease in miscellaneous income, driven by additional synthetic fuel production procured in 2006 from our partners in this facility (see Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel facility). Finally, pre tax gains recognized on land sales decreased $8.0 million, from $10.3 million in 2005 to $2.3 million in 2006. These decreases were partially offset by a $13.9 million increase in pre tax equity earnings from ATC and a $6.2 million pre tax gain recognized from the sale of Integrys Energy Groups one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $37.2 million (60.0%) in 2006, compared to 2005, due primarily to an increase in the average amount of both short term and long term debt outstanding and higher average short term interest rates. During 2006, borrowings were primarily utilized to fund the purchase of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, the construction of Weston 4, and for working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 22.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 20.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in the effective tax rate was driven by a higher effective state tax rate, primarily related to the acquisition of regulated natural gas operations in Minnesota and also due to a loss in value of various state net operating loss carryforwards. Partially offsetting these decreases, Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized increased $3.4 million in 2006, compared to 2005. We recognized the tax benefit of $29.5 million of Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006, compared to $26.1 million in 2005, from the production and sale of synthetic fuel. Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized increased despite an anticipated 33% phase out due to additional tons of synthetic fuel we were able to procure from our partners in the synthetic fuel facility, who curtailed their production in 2006 due to high oil prices. Integrys Energy Services economically hedged the risk associated with this additional production. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased $4.2 million, from after tax income of $11.5 million in 2005 to after tax income of $7.3 million in 2006. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to Sunbury decreased $2.2 million, from income of $9.1 million in 2005 to income of $6.9 million in 2006. The decrease was driven by a $39.1 million ($23.5 million after tax) decrease in gross margin, partially offset by a $12.5 million after tax gain recognized on the sale of Sunbury, and a $10.4 million ($6.2 million after tax) decrease in interest expense. The decrease in gross margin at Sunbury was due in part to the fact that Sunbury was available for operation 55 during the entire year ended December 31, 2005, compared to a partial year of operations in 2006 as this facility was sold in July 2006. Gross margin also decreased as a result of the higher cost of fuel and emission allowances combined with lower energy prices prior to the sale in 2006, compared to the comparable period in 2005. Since the sale of its allocated emission allowances in the second quarter of 2005, Sunbury purchased emission allowances required for operation at market prices. The decrease in interest expense was driven by $9.1 million of interest expense recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the termination of an interest rate swap pertaining to Sunburys non recourse debt obligation, as well as the recognition of interest expense on the non recourse debt prior to the restructuring of this debt in the second quarter of 2005. The restructuring of the Sunbury debt to a Integrys Energy Group obligation in June 2005 triggered the recognition of interest expense equivalent to the mark to market value of the swap at the date of restructuring. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to WPS Niagara Generation, LLC decreased $2.0 million, from income of $2.4 million in 2005 to income of $0.4 million in 2006. The decrease in income generated from WPS Niagara Generation was mostly due to a decrease in the average price per megawatt sold from this facility in 2006 compared to 2005. For more information on discontinued operations, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principles In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. This Interpretation clarifies when companies are required to recognize conditional legal asset retirement obligations that result from the acquisition, construction, and normal operation of a long lived asset. Because the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations has been interpreted differently between companies, SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, had been inconsistently applied in practice. The adoption of Interpretation No. 47 at Integrys Energy Services on December 31, 2005, resulted in a negative $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005, related to recording a liability for asbestos remediation at certain of Integrys Energy Services generation plants. For the utility segments of Integrys Energy Group, we concluded it was probable that any differences between expenses under Interpretation No. 47 and expenses currently recovered through customer rates will be recoverable in future customer rates. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement had no impact on the utility segments income. 2005 Compared with 2004 Integrys Energy Group Overview Integrys Energy Groups 2005 and 2004 results of operations are shown in the following table: Integrys Energy Groups Results (Millions, except share amounts) 2005 2004 Change Income available for common shareholders $ 157.4 $ 139.7 12.7 % Basic earnings per share $ 4.11 $ 3.74 9.9 % Diluted earnings per share $ 4.07 $ 3.72 9.4 % Income available for common shareholders was $157.4 million ($4.07 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $139.7 million ($3.72 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2004. Significant factors impacting the change in earnings and earnings per share are as follows (and are discussed in more detail below): 56 Integrys Energy Services earnings increased $32.4 million (77.7%), for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Higher earnings were driven by the $37.9 million increase in margin, partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses, a $24.3 million after tax increase in results from discontinued operations, a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits, and the negative impact of a $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle recorded in 2005. Earnings at the Holding Company and Other segment decreased $6 million in 2005, compared to 2004, driven by lower gains from land sales, an income tax benefit recognized in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR, and an increase in interest expense. These items were partially offset by higher equity earnings from our investment in ATC. Electric utility earnings decreased $4.6 million (6.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Electric utility earnings were negatively impacted by fuel and purchased power costs that were $13.7 million in excess of what WPSC was allowed to recover from customers due to inefficiencies in the fuel recovery process ($10 million related to retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers). In addition, the PSCWs ruling in the 2006 rate case, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage and a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. The change in diluted earnings per share was also impacted by an increase of 1.1 million shares in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Additional shares were issued in 2005 under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock based employee benefit plans. Integrys Energy Groups issuance of 1.9 million additional shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 also contributed to the increase in the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Overview of Utility Operations Income available for common shareholders attributable to the electric utility segment was $64.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $68.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Income available for common shareholders attributable to the gas utility segment was $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Electric Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Electric Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 1,037.1 $ 896.6 15.7 % Fuel and purchased power costs 444.2 295.5 50.3 % Margins $ 592.9 $ 601.1 (1.4 %) Sales in kilowatt hours 15,660.1 14,465.7 8.3 % Electric utility revenue increased $140.5 million (15.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility revenue increased largely due to an approved electric rate increase for WPSCs Wisconsin retail customers and an increase in electric sales volumes. On December 21, 2004, the PSCW approved a retail electric rate increase of $60.7 million (8.6%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was required primarily to recover increased costs related to fuel and purchased power, the construction of the Weston 4 power plant, and benefit costs. Electric sales volumes increased 8.3%, primarily due to significantly warmer weather during the 2005 cooling season, 57 compared to the same period in 2004, and new power sales agreements that were entered into with wholesale customers. As a result of the warm weather, both WPSC and UPPCO set all time records for peak electric demand in the second and third quarters of 2005. The electric utility margin decreased $8.2 million (1.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in margin can be attributed to a $9.0 million (1.6%) decrease in WPSCs electric margin, which was largely driven by the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Prior to the sale of Kewaunee, only nuclear fuel expense was reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. Subsequent to the sale, all payments to Dominion for power purchased from Kewaunee are reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. These include both variable payments for energy delivered and fixed payments. As a result of the sale, WPSC no longer incurs operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and decommissioning expense, or interest expense for Kewaunee. Excluding the $43.2 million of fixed payments made to Dominion in 2005, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $34.2 million compared to 2004. This increase in margin was primarily related to the approved 2005 retail electric rate increase discussed above and the warm summer weather conditions, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs associated with high natural gas prices and the PSCWs disallowance of certain costs in its decision on the 2006 rate case for WPSC (these costs were previously approved for deferral). Fuel and purchased power costs incurred in 2005 exceeded the amount recovered from ratepayers by $13.7 million (of which $10 million related to Wisconsin retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers), negatively impacting margin. The increase in fuel and purchased power costs resulted primarily from the destruction of certain natural gas production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico by hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005, driving up the per unit cost of natural gas used in generation. The quantity of power generated from WPSCs natural gas fired units was also up 162% over the prior year, driven by the warm summer weather conditions experienced during 2005, increased dispatch by the MISO for reliability purposes, and purchases through a purchase power agreement from the Fox Energy Center (which began operating in June 2005). Certain costs related to the MISO were approved for deferral. Authorization was requested from the PSCW to defer increased natural gas costs related to the hurricanes, but this request was denied, leaving the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism as the only option for recovery. However, because of the way the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism works, the increase in fuel and purchased power costs (primarily related to the combination of rising natural gas prices caused by the hurricanes and the increase in natural gas fired generation) were essentially unrecoverable since they were incurred late in the year. To mitigate the risk of unrecoverable fuel costs in 2006 due to market price volatility, WPSC employed risk management techniques pursuant to its risk policy approved by the PSCW, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of $5.5 million of increased fuel and purchased power costs related to an extended outage at Kewaunee in 2004, resulting in this deferral being written off in the fourth quarter of 2005. Electric utility earnings decreased $4.6 million (6.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The decrease in earnings resulted from the high fuel and purchased power costs that WPSC was unable to recover from its Wisconsin retail and wholesale customers, the PSCWs disallowance of previously deferred costs related to Kewaunee, and an increase in operating and maintenance expenses. Gas Utility Segment Operations Integrys Energy Groups Gas Utility Segment Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 522.0 $ 420.9 24.0 % Purchased natural gas costs 397.4 301.9 31.6 % Margins $ 124.6 $ 119.0 4.7 % Throughput in therms 827.2 801.3 3.2 % 58 Gas utility revenue increased $101.1 million (24.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Gas utility revenue increased primarily as a result of an increase in the per unit cost of natural gas, a natural gas rate increase, and higher natural gas throughput volumes. Natural gas costs increased 24.6% (on a per unit basis) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Following regulatory practice, WPSC passes changes in the total cost of natural gas on to customers through a purchased gas adjustment clause, as allowed by the PSCW and the MPSC. The PSCW issued an order authorizing a natural gas rate increase of $5.6 million (1.1%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was primarily driven by higher benefit costs and the cost of natural gas distribution system improvements. Natural gas throughput volumes increased 3.2%, driven by an increase in interdepartmental sales from the natural gas utility to the electric utility as a result of increased generation from combustion turbines. Higher natural gas throughput volumes from interdepartmental sales to the electric utility were partially offset by lower natural gas throughput volumes to residential customers, driven by milder weather conditions in 2005, compared to 2004. WPSC also believes customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. The natural gas utility margin increased $5.6 million (4.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The higher natural gas utility margin was largely due to the rate increase mentioned above. The increase in interdepartmental sales volumes to WPSCs electric utility also had a positive impact on the natural gas margin. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. Overview of Integrys Energy Services Operations Income available for common shareholders attributable to Integrys Energy Services was $74.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $41.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) 2005 2004 Change Nonregulated revenues $ 5,314.9 $ 3,599.5 47.7 % Nonregulated cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power 5,146.9 3,469.4 48.4 % Margins $ 168.0 $ 130.1 29.1 % Wholesale natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 327.8 235.4 39.3 % Retail natural gas sales volumes in billion cubic feet * 227.7 276.7 (17.7 %) Wholesale electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 1,515.6 3,019.1 (49.8 %) Retail electric sales volumes in kilowatt hours * 6,594.5 7,235.7 (8.9 %) * Represents gross physical volumes Revenues Integrys Energy Services revenue increased $1.7 billion (47.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Natural gas revenue increased $1.7 billion (54.8%), driven by a 46% increase in the average price of natural gas, higher natural gas throughput volumes in Canada, and an increase in structured natural gas transactions with wholesale customers. Electric revenue increased approximately $56 million, largely due to an $88 million increase in revenue from retail electric operations in New York, resulting from an increase in the per unit price of electricity sold and a 115% increase in sales volumes (the New York business had its first full year of operation in 2005). Revenue also increased due to an increase in structured energy transactions. These items were partially offset by a $78.2 million decrease in wholesale electric revenue related to Integrys Energy Services prior participation in the New Jersey Basic Generation Services Program, which ended on May 31, 2004, and a $31.1 million decrease in revenue from retail electric operations in Michigan, driven by lower sales volumes in 2005. 59 Margins Integrys Energy Services margins increased $37.9 million (29.1%), from $130.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, to $168.0 million for 2005. Many items contributed to the year over year net increase in margin and, as a result, a table has been provided to summarize significant changes. Variances included under "Other significant items" in the table below are related to the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles and gains and losses that do not frequently occur in Integrys Energy Services business. All variances depicted in the table are discussed in more detail below. (Millions except natural gas sales volumes) Increase (Decrease) in Margin in 2005 Compared to 2004 Electric and other margins Physical asset management $ 7.5 New York retail 3.0 Michigan retail (15.7 ) All other electric operations 21.1 Other significant items: Oil option activity 8.7 Liquidation of electric purchase contract 8.2 Net increase in electric and other margins 32.8 Natural gas margins Gas margins (principally Canada, Michigan, and Wisconsin retail markets) 6.1 Other significant items: Counterparty settlement 3.3 Unrealized gain on Ohio options 2.9 Spot to forward differential (7.2 ) Net increase in natural gas margins 5.1 Net increase in Integrys Energy Services margin $ 37.9 Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins increased $32.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the net change in Integrys Energy Services electric and other margins: Physical asset management Optimization strategies related to Integrys Energy Services generation facilities resulted in a $7.5 million increase in margin. The profitability and volume of transactions related to Integrys Energy Services optimization strategies were higher due to increased variability in the price of energy in 2005 compared to 2004. In the first quarter of 2004, Integrys Energy Services first implemented the portfolio optimization strategies to optimize the value of the merchant generation fleet to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from these assets through the use of various financial and physical instruments (such as forward contracts and options). New York retail The first full year of retail electric operations in New York (as discussed in "Revenues" above) contributed $3.0 million to the overall margin increase. Michigan retail The margin contributed by retail electric operations in Michigan decreased $15.7 million in 2005, compared to 2004. Higher transmission related charges resulting from the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment, which was implemented on December 1, 2004, and continued through March 2006, as ordered by the FERC, negatively impacted the margin from retail electric operations in Michigan. In addition, tariff changes granted to the regulated utilities in Michigan in 2004, coupled with high wholesale energy prices, have significantly lowered the savings customers can obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. The tariff changes enable Michigan utilities to charge a fee to electric customers choosing non utility suppliers in order to recover certain stranded costs. Integrys Energy Services has experienced significant customer attrition as a result 60 of the tariff changes and higher wholesale prices. Customer attrition, high wholesale energy prices, and the tariff changes have also negatively impacted the margin from retail electric operations in Michigan. All other electric operations A $21.1 million increase in margin was primarily related to realized and unrealized gains on structured power transactions in the latter half of 2005. These transactions included the execution of purchase and sales contracts with municipalities, merchant generators, retail aggregators, and other power marketers made possible by changing market conditions. Additionally, Integrys Energy Services experienced increased margins from its merchant generation fleet as a result of increased dispatch levels due to improved market conditions. Period by period variability in the margin contributed by structured transactions and the merchant generation fleet is expected due to constantly changing market conditions and the timing of gain and loss recognition on certain transactions pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles. Oil option activity Mark to market gains recognized in 2005 on derivative instruments utilized to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2006 and 2007 contributed $8.4 million to the increase in margin. The derivative contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value are recorded currently in earnings. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in different periods, compared to any offsetting tax credit phase outs that may occur. For the year ended December 31, 2005, unrealized mark to market gains of $4.0 million and $4.4 million were recognized for the 2006 and 2007 oil options, respectively, while no tax credit phase out was recognized because 2006 and 2007 tax credits will not be recognized until fuel is produced and sold in those periods. Hedges of 2005 exposure contributed an additional $0.3 million increase in margin ($1.9 million gain on settlement, net of $1.6 million of premium amortization). Liquidation of electric purchase contract In 2005, an electricity supplier exiting the wholesale market in Maine forced Integrys Energy Services to liquidate a firm contract to buy power in 2006 and 2007. Integrys Energy Services recognized a gain of $8.2 million related to the liquidation of this contract, and entered into a new contract with another supplier for firm power in 2006 and 2007 to supply its customers in Maine. The cost to purchase power under the new contract will be more than the cost under the liquidated contract. As a result, purchased power costs will be $6.4 million higher in 2006 and slightly higher than the original contracted amount in 2007, substantially offsetting the 2005 gain. The natural gas margin at Integrys Energy Services increased $5.1 million (9.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in Integrys Energy Services electric margin: Gas margins (principally Canada, Michigan, and Wisconsin retail) Major contributors to growth in Integrys Energy Services gas margins included the continued expansion of our Canadian retail and wholesale business, as well as increased margins from our retail operations in Michigan and Wisconsin. Counterparty settlement The natural gas margin increased $3.3 million as a result of a favorable settlement with a counterparty. Unrealized gain on Ohio options A $2.9 million mark to market gain on options utilized to manage supply costs for Ohio customers, which expired in varying months through September 2006, also contributed to the margin increase. These contracts are utilized to reduce the risk of price movements and changes in load requirements during customer signup periods. Earnings volatility results from the application of derivative accounting rules to the options (requiring that these derivative instruments be marked to market), without a corresponding offset related to the customer contracts. Full requirements gas contracts with Integrys Energy Services customers are not considered derivatives and, therefore, no gain or loss is recognized on these contracts until settlement. Spot to forward differential The natural gas storage cycle (described in more detail below) accounted for a $7.2 million decrease in the wholesale natural gas margin (for the year ended 61 December 31, 2005, the natural gas storage cycle had a $5.2 million negative impact on margin, compared with a $2.0 million favorable impact on margin for the same period in 2004). Integrys Energy Services experiences earnings volatility associated with the natural gas storage cycle, which runs annually from April through March of the next year. Generally, injections of natural gas into storage inventory take place in the summer months and natural gas is withdrawn from storage in the winter months. Integrys Energy Services policy is to hedge the value of natural gas storage with sales in the over the counter and futures markets, effectively locking in a margin on the natural gas in storage. However, fair market value hedge accounting rules require the natural gas in storage to be marked to market using spot prices, while the future sales contracts are marked to market using forward prices. When the spot price of natural gas changes disproportionately to the forward price of natural gas, Integrys Energy Services experiences volatility in its earnings. Consequently, earnings volatility may occur within the contract period for natural gas in storage. The accounting treatment does not impact the underlying cash flows or economics of these transactions. At December 31, 2005, there was a $5.8 million difference between the market value of natural gas in storage and the market value of future sales contracts (net unrealized loss), related to the 2005/2006 natural gas storage cycle. This difference between the market value of natural gas in storage and the market value of future sales contracts related to the 2005/2006 storage cycle is expected to vary with market conditions, but will reverse entirely and have a positive impact on earnings when all of the natural gas is withdrawn from storage. Earnings Integrys Energy Services earnings increased $32.4 million (77.7%), for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Higher earnings were driven by the $37.9 million increase in margin, partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses, a $24.3 million after tax increase in results from discontinued operations, a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits, and the negative impact of a $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle recorded in 2005. Overview of Holding Company and Other Segment Operations Holding Company and Other operations include the operations of Integrys Energy Group and the nonutility activities at WPSC and UPPCO. Holding Company and Other operations recognized earnings of $5.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to earnings of $11.9 million in 2004. The decrease in earnings is primarily due to a $9.4 million decrease in pre tax gains related to land sales, an income tax benefit recognized in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR, and a $5.5 million increase in interest expense. Pre tax land sale gains of $10.3 million were recognized in 2005, compared to $19.7 million of pre tax land sale gains in 2004. Interest expense increased primarily as a result of restructuring Sunburys debt to a Integrys Energy Groups obligation in June 2005 and higher average short term debt in 2005, compared to 2004. Partially offsetting the items discussed above was a $9.1 million increase in pre tax equity earnings from ATC and $1.5 million of deferred financing costs that were written off in the first quarter of 2004. Pre tax equity earnings from ATC were $25.1 million in 2005, compared to $16.0 million in 2004. Integrys Energy Groups ownership interest in ATC increased from approximately 23% at December 31, 2004, to approximately 31.0% at December 31, 2005. The higher ownership interest was primarily the result of Integrys Energy Groups continued funding of a portion of the Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line. 62 Operating Expenses Integrys Energy Groups Operating Expenses (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 535.4 $ 508.6 5.3 % Depreciation and decommissioning expense 142.3 106.8 33.2 % Taxes other than income 47.3 45.8 3.3 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses increased $26.8 million (5.3%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Utility operating and maintenance expenses increased $12.9 million, primarily as a result of a $13.6 million increase in WPSCs operating and maintenance expenses. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: The combined increase in pension expense, active and postretirement medical expense, salaries, and customer service expense was approximately $25 million. Transmission related expenses increased $9.9 million. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the 2005 sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs. The increases discussed above were partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expenses of approximately $28 million related to Kewaunee, due to the sale of this facility on July 5, 2005. Operating and maintenance expenses at Integrys Energy Services increased $15.8 million. Approximately $11 million of the increase related to higher payroll and benefit costs associated with recent business expansion. Commissions paid to brokers and third party agents increased $2.4 million and bad debt expense increased $2.3 million, primarily as a result of higher energy prices. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense increased $35.5 million (33.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004, largely due to an increase of $35.0 million at WPSC. The increase at WPSC was driven by higher gains on decommissioning trust assets prior to the sale of Kewaunee of approximately $35 million. Realized gains on decommissioning trust assets (included as a component of miscellaneous income) offset the increased decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice. Continued capital investment at WPSC also resulted in an increase in depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by a $7.0 million decrease in depreciation resulting from the sale of the Kewaunee assets in July 2005. 63 Other Income (Expense) Integrys Energy Groups Other Income (Expense) (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Miscellaneous income $ 86.2 $ 47.9 80.0 % Interest expense (62.0 ) (54.2 ) 14.4 % Minority interest 4.5 3.4 32.4 % Other (expense) income $ 28.7 $ (2.9 ) Miscellaneous Income Miscellaneous income increased $38.3 million (80.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the largest contributors to the change in miscellaneous income: Approximately $35 million of the increase in miscellaneous income related to realized gains on nuclear decommissioning trust assets. The nonqualified decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which was completed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on income available for common shareholders. Pre tax equity earnings from Integrys Energy Groups investment in ATC increased $9.1 million. Pre tax equity earnings from ATC were $25.1 million in 2005, compared to $16.0 million in 2004. WPSC sold a 30% interest in the Weston 4 power plant to DPC in the fourth quarter of 2005. Proceeds received from the sale included reimbursement for approximately $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC for capital expenditures related to DPCs portion of the facility, which were funded by WPSC in 2004 and 2005. The $8 million reimbursement was recorded as miscellaneous income in 2005. Land sale gains of $10.3 million were recognized in 2005, compared to land sale gains of $19.7 million in 2004, resulting in a $9.4 million decrease in miscellaneous income. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense was primarily related to an increase in the average level of short term debt outstanding in 2005, compared to 2004. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 20.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 16.3% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in the effective tax rate was driven by a tax benefit recorded in 2004 for land donated to the WDNR, a $2.9 million increase in the year over year provision for income taxes related to favorable settlements of certain tax audits and refund claims in 2004, and a $1.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized. Our ownership interest in the synthetic fuel operation resulted in recognizing the tax benefit of Section 29/45K federal tax credits totaling $26.1 million in 2005 and $27.8 million in 2004. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Discontinued operations, net of tax, at Sunbury increased $22.5 million, from an after tax net loss of $13.4 million in 2004 to after tax income of $9.1 million in 2005. The margin at Sunbury increased $42.6 million, primarily due to improved opportunities to sell power into the market (made possible by the expiration of a fixed price outtake contract on December 31, 2004, and higher energy market prices). Integrys Energy Services earnings were negatively impacted by an $80.6 million pre tax impairment loss 64 that was required to write down Sunburys long lived assets to fair market value and the recognition of $9.1 million in interest expense related to the termination of Sunburys interest rate swap. However, these items were substantially offset by an $86.8 million pre tax gain recognized on the sale of Sunburys allocation emission allowances. The year over year change in discontinued operations was also negatively impacted by a $4.4 million termination payment received from Duquesne Power in December 2004, as a result of Duquesnes termination of the asset sale agreement with Sunbury. Discontinued operations, net of tax, related to WPS Niagara Generation, LLC increased $2.8 million, from a net loss of $0.4 million in 2004 to income of $2.4 million in 2005. The increase in income generated from WPS Niagara Generation was mostly due to an increase in the average price per megawatt sold from this facility in 2005 compared to 2004. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principles The adoption of Interpretation No. 47 at Integrys Energy Services on December 31, 2005, resulted in a negative $1.6 million after tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, related to recording a liability for asbestos remediation at certain of Integrys Energy Services generation plants. For the utility segments of Integrys Energy Group, we concluded it was probable that any differences between expenses under Interpretation No. 47 and expenses currently recovered through customer rates will be recoverable in future customer rates. Accordingly, the adoption of this statement had no impact on the utility segments income. BALANCE SHEET INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP 2006 Compared with 2005 Inventories increased $151.9 million (49.9%), from $304.4 million at December 31, 2005, to $456.3 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in inventories was primarily related to an $85.2 million (42.5%) increase in natural gas in storage at Integrys Energy Services and a combined $65.7 million increase related to natural gas in storage at MGUC and MERC. A 121% increase in natural gas volumes in storage at Integrys Energy Services at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, drove the increase in inventory at Integrys Energy Services, which was partially offset by a 20% decrease in the average cost of inventory in storage. High natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas) increased the profitability of natural gas transactions in 2006, driving the increase in natural gas volumes in storage as well as the related structured wholesale natural gas storage transactions under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Current assets from risk management activities increased $162.2 million (17.9%) at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, and current liabilities from risk management activities increased $148.9 million (17.5%). Long term assets from risk management activities increased $81.7 million (36.1%) at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005, and long term liabilities from risk management activities increased $76.3 million (40.5%). The increase in short term and long term risk management assets and liabilities was primarily related to an increase in contracted forward natural gas and electric sales volumes, partially offset by a decrease in the forward price of natural gas and electricity at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Contracted forward electric volumes increased significantly, largely due to the continued expansion of Integrys Energy Services customer focused wholesale electric business, its entry into the Texas and Illinois retail electric markets, and moderate retail growth in New York and New England. Contracted forward natural gas volumes also increased, partially attributed to high natural gas storage spreads at the end of 2006, which drove an increase in wholesale natural gas transactions under contract at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005. Retail natural gas volumes under contract at December 31, 2006 also increased compared to the prior year as lower natural gas prices provided more opportunities for Integrys Energy Services to enter into supply contracts with customers in existing markets. Property, plant, and equipment, net, increased $490.8 million (24.0%), to $2,534.8 million at December 31, 2006, from $2,044.0 million at December 31, 2005. The major contributors to the change in property, plant, and equipment are summarized below: 65 Capital expenditures recorded in 2006 were $342.0 million, of which $146 million related to the construction of Weston 4. Integrys Energy Group acquired retail natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006, including $290.4 million of property, plant, and equipment. Depreciation expense of $106.1 million was recorded in 2006. Regulatory assets increased $145.8 million (53.6%), from $272.0 million at December 31, 2005, to $417.8 million at December 31, 2006. The majority of this increase, $126.1 million, related to pensions and postretirement items, including the adoption of SFAS No. 158 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information) and certain pension and postretirement purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of natural gas utility operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006 (see Note 6, Acquisition and Sale of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). Goodwill increased $267.1 million, from $36.8 million at December 31, 2005, to $303.9 million at December 31, 2006, related to the acquisition of natural gas utility operations in Michigan and Minnesota in 2006. See Note 6, "Acquisition and Sale of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Short term debt increased $458.0 million (173.0%), from $264.8 million at December 31, 2005, to $722.8 million at December 31, 2006 and long term debt increased $442.6 million (50.8%), from $871.1 million at December 31, 2005 to $1,313.7 million at December 31, 2006. In 2006, additional borrowings were primarily utilized to fund the purchase of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, the construction of Weston 4, and for working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services. Regulatory liabilities decreased $71.5 million (19.2%), from $373.2 million at December 31, 2005, to $301.7 million at December 31, 2006, driven by a decrease in the regulatory liability related to proceeds received from the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale. WPSC amortized $70.8 million of the regulatory liability related to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust fund in 2006. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations increased $106.5 million (129.7%), from $82.1 million at December 31, 2005, to $188.6 million at December 31, 2006. The increase was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 158 on December 31, 2006 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP We believe that our cash balances, liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to equity capital markets and borrowing capacity made available because of strong credit ratings, when taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. However, our operating cash flow and access to capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of our control. In addition, our borrowing costs can be impacted by short term and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. We believe our ratings are among the best in the energy industry (see "Financing Cash Flows Credit Ratings" below). 66 Operating Cash Flows During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $72.9 million, compared with $77.4 million in 2005. The $4.5 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by an $88.2 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements, primarily due to an increase in natural gas inventories at Integrys Energy Services. Natural gas in storage at Integrys Energy Services increased $85.2 million primarily related to a 121% increase in natural gas volumes in storage at Integrys Energy Services at December 31, 2006, compared to December 31, 2005 (partially offset by a 20% decrease in the average cost of inventory in storage). Integrys Energy Services chose to purchase more natural gas for storage due to high natural gas storage spreads (future natural gas sales prices were higher than the near term price of natural gas). The increase in cash used to fund higher Integrys Energy Services natural gas inventories was partially offset by cash used to fund expenditures incurred in 2005 related to the unplanned outage at Kewaunee, the start up of MISO, and coal shortages (these items are discussed below and have only partially been collected from ratepayers). During 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $77.4 million, compared to $242.5 million in 2004. The $165.1 million decrease was driven by an $81.6 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements, primarily at Integrys Energy Services. Net cash provided by operating activities also decreased due to various expenditures incurred in 2005 at WPSC that will be collected from ratepayers in future years. In 2005, expenditures incurred related to the unplanned Kewaunee outage were approximately $49 million, expenditures incurred related to MISO were approximately $21 million, and increased expenditures related to coal shortages were approximately $6 million. Investing Cash Flows Net cash used for investing activities was $1,030.1 million in 2006, compared to $148.8 million in 2005. The $881.3 million year over year increase was primarily due to $659.3 million of cash paid in 2006 for the acquisition of the Michigan and Minnesota natural gas distribution operations from Aquila, $112.5 million of proceeds received in 2005 related to the sale of Kewaunee, $127.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from the liquidation of the related non qualified decommissioning trust, and $95.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. Also contributing to the increase was $22.0 million of cash deposited into an escrow account in 2006 for the payment of the outstanding principal balance of first mortgage bonds in January 2007 (discussed below in significant financing activities). Partially offsetting the increase in cash used for investing activities was a $71.9 million decrease in capital expenditures (discussed below), proceeds of $38.5 million received in 2006 from the sale of the companys one third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, and proceeds of $19.9 million received in 2006 from the sale of WPS ESI Gas Storage, LLC. Net cash used for investing activities decreased from $312.4 million in 2004 to $148.8 million in 2005. The $163.6 million (52.4%) decrease was driven by proceeds of $127.1 million received from the liquidation of the non qualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale, $112.5 million of proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, and $95.1 million of proceeds received from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. The decreases were partially offset by a $124.1 million increase in capital expenditures (primarily related to the construction of Weston 4) and a $30.3 million increase in the purchase of equity investments and other acquisitions, driven by a $41.3 million increase in Integrys Energy Groups funding of ATCs Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line in 2005, compared to 2004. 67 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows: Years Ended December 31, Millions 2006 2005 2004 Electric utility $ 282.1 $ 373.9 $ 223.0 Gas utility 54.6 36.4 62.7 Integrys Energy Services 5.5 2.7 3.8 Other (0.2 ) 0.9 0.3 Integrys Energy Group Consolidated $ 342.0 $ 413.9 $ 289.8 The decrease in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2006 compared to 2005 was mainly due to lower capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Weston 4 is expected to be commercially operational by June 2008. The increase in capital expenditures at the gas utility was related to a combined $20.1 million of capital expenditures incurred by MGUC and MERC for natural gas mains. The increase in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2005 compared to 2004 was mainly due to higher capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Gas utility capital expenditures decreased in 2005 over 2004 primarily due to the completion of the automated meter reading project. Financing Cash Flows Net cash provided by financing activities was $891.7 million in 2006, compared with net cash related to financing activities of $0 in 2005. The change was primarily attributed to a $458.0 million increase in short term debt and the issuance of $447.0 million of long term debt in 2006. Increased borrowings were used primarily for the acquisitions of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, construction expenditures related to Weston 4, working capital requirements at Integrys Energy Services, and for other general corporate purposes. Net cash related to financing activities was $0 in 2005, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $76.8 million in 2004. Although cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2005, compared to 2004, this decrease was offset by a decrease in cash used for investing activities (primarily related to proceeds received from various asset sales in 2005). Significant Financing Activities As part of the merger, Integrys Energy Group anticipates increasing our quarterly common stock dividend rate to 66 cents per share going forward. This will result in a prorated dividend for the first quarter of 2007. We anticipate that Integrys Energy Group will continue the 66 cents per share quarterly dividend rate in the future, subject to evaluation by the Integrys Energy Group Board of Directors as future business needs dictate. Integrys Energy Group had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $562.8 million and $254.8 million at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Included in these amounts were commercial paper borrowings of $38.0 million and $75.0 million related to WPSC at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Integrys Energy Group had other outstanding short term debt of $160.0 million and $10.0 million as of December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Of the $160 million, $150.0 million related to Integrys Energy Services and $10.0 million related to WPSC. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services entered into a $150.0 million 364 day credit agreement to finance its margin requirements related to natural gas and electric contracts traded on the NYMEX and the ICE, as well as the cost of natural gas in storage and for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under this agreement are guaranteed by Integrys Energy Group. As of December 31, 2006, the entire $150 million available under the credit agreement was utilized by Integrys Energy Services. 68 On December 14, 2006, the Village of Weston, Wisconsin, issued $22.0 million of 3.95% Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds and loaned the proceeds from the sale of the bonds to WPSC. In return, WPSC issued $22.0 million of 3.95% senior notes, due in 2013, to the Village of Weston. At December 31, 2006, the $22.0 million of proceeds received from the Village of Weston were classified as restricted cash. In January 2007, WPSC used the restricted cash to repay the outstanding principal balance of its 6.90% first mortgage bonds which originally matured in 2013. In December 2006, WPSC also issued $125 million of 5.55% 30 year senior notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were used for general corporate purposes, including funding construction costs and capital additions and reducing short term indebtedness. On December 1, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $300 million of junior subordinated notes. Interest has been fixed at 6.22% through the use of forward starting interest rate swaps described more fully in Note 3, "Risk Management Activities." For more information on the junior subordinated notes, see Note 14, "Long term Debt." In 2006, 2005, and 2004 Integrys Energy Group issued new shares of common stock under its Stock Investment Plan and under certain stock based employee benefit and compensation plans. As a result of these plans, equity increased $25.0 million, $29.0 million, and $28.3 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Integrys Energy Group did not repurchase any existing common stock during 2006 or 2005. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group entered into a forward equity sale agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as forward purchaser, relating to 2.7 million shares of Integrys Energy Groups common stock. On May 10, 2006, Integrys Energy Group physically settled the forward equity agreement and thereby issued 2.7 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $139.6 million. The proceeds were used to pay down commercial paper borrowings originally utilized to finance the acquisition of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and for general corporate purposes. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group issued and sold 1.9 million shares of common stock at a public offering price of $53.70 per share. The proceeds of $98.3 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, were used to reduce short term debt and fund equity contributions to subsidiary companies. In June 2005, $62.9 million of non recourse debt at an Integrys Energy Services subsidiary that was used to finance the purchase of Sunbury was restructured to a five year Integrys Energy Group obligation in connection with the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances. An additional $2.7 million drawn on a line of credit at Integrys Energy Services was rolled into the five year Integrys Energy Group obligation. The floating interest rate on the total five year Integrys Energy Group obligation of $65.6 million was fixed at 4.595% through two interest rate swaps. See Note 4, "Discontinued Operations," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to Sunbury. In January 2004, WPSC retired $49.9 million of its 7.125% series first mortgage bonds. These bonds had an original maturity date of July 1, 2023. In January 2004, Integrys Energy Group retired $50.0 million of its 7.0% trust preferred securities. As a result of this transaction, WPSR Capital Trust I, a Delaware business trust, was dissolved. Credit Ratings Integrys Energy Group and WPSC use internally generated funds and commercial paper borrowing to satisfy most of their capital requirements. Integrys Energy Group also periodically issues long term debt and common stock to reduce short term debt, maintain desired capitalization ratios, and fund future growth. Integrys Energy Group may seek nonrecourse financing for funding nonregulated acquisitions. Integrys Energy Groups commercial paper borrowing program provides for working capital requirements of the nonregulated businesses, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC. WPSC has its own commercial paper borrowing program. WPSC also periodically issues long term debt, receives equity contributions from 69 Integrys Energy Group, and makes payments for return of capital to Integrys Energy Group to reduce short term debt, fund future growth, and maintain capitalization ratios as authorized by the PSCW. The specific forms of long term financing, amounts, and timing depend on the availability of projects, market conditions, and other factors. The current credit ratings for Integrys Energy Group and WPSC are listed in the table below. Credit Ratings Standard & Poors Moodys Integrys Energy Group Corporate credit rating Senior unsecured debt Commercial paper Credit facility Junior subordinated notes A BBB+ A 2 BBB n/a A3 P 2 A3 Baa1 WPSC Senior secured debt Preferred stock Commercial paper Credit facility A BBB+ A 2 Aa3 A3 P 1 A1 We believe these ratings continue to be among the best in the energy industry and allow us to access commercial paper and long term debt markets on favorable terms. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, are subject to change, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. On February 21, 2007, Standard & Poors lowered the corporate credit rating on Integrys Energy Group to A from A and removed it from CreditWatch with negative implications. Standard & Poors also lowered Integrys Energy Groups unsecured ratings to BBB+ from A and all other issue specific ratings by one notch. Standard & Poors stated that the ratings actions are due to concerns related to plans to expand its energy marketing business, the dividend requirements that will result from the merger, moderate capital expenditure requirements, lower than expected performance at MGUC and MERC, and uncertainty regarding future rate relief as well as full integration to commence at the newly acquired Peoples utilities. Standard & Poors also lowered all WPSCs issue specific ratings by one notch as WPSCs liquidity is being pressured by its ongoing construction program. Standard & Poors outlook for all Integrys Energy Group related companies is negative pending the sale of Peoples Energy Corporations oil and natural gas production business and successful integration of recent acquisitions. On February 21, 2007, Moodys downgraded the senior unsecured rating of Integrys Energy Group to A3 from A1, downgraded the bank credit facility to A3 from A1, downgraded the commercial paper rating to Prime 2 from Prime 1, and downgraded the junior subordinated notes to Baa1 from A2. Moodys also downgraded WPSCs senior secured rating to Aa3 from Aa2, its senior unsecured bank credit facility to A1 from Aa3, and its preferred stock to A3 from A2. Moodys also confirmed WPSCs commercial paper rating at Prime 1. Moodys actions to downgrade are due to concerns about increases in Integrys Energy Groups consolidated debt levels and business risk profile evidenced by the increased scale and scope of the post merger non regulated energy marketing business plus the entry into the historically more challenging regulatory jurisdiction of Illinois. Initially, on November 28, 2006, Standard & Poors assigned Integrys Energy Groups $300 million junior subordinated notes a BBB+ rating due to the notes subordinated position in Integrys Energy Groups capital structure and the potential for interest deferral and Moodys assigned a rating of A2 to the junior subordinated notes. Rating agencies use a number of both quantitative and qualitative measures in determining a companys credit rating. These measures include business risk, liquidity risk, competitive position, capital mix, financial condition, predictability of cash flows, management strength, and future direction. Some of the quantitative measures can be analyzed through a few key financial ratios, while the qualitative measures are more subjective. 70 Integrys Energy Group and WPSC hold credit lines to back 100% of their commercial paper borrowing and letters of credit. A significant decrease in the commercial paper credit ratings could adversely affect the companies by increasing the interest rates at which they can borrow and potentially limiting the availability of funds to the companies through the commercial paper market. A restriction in the companies ability to use commercial paper borrowing to meet working capital needs would require them to secure funds through alternate sources resulting in higher interest expense, higher credit line fees, and a potential delay in the availability of funds. Integrys Energy Services maintains underlying agreements to support its electric and natural gas trading operations. In the event of a deterioration of Integrys Energy Groups credit rating, many of these agreements allow the counterparty to demand additional assurance of payment. This provision could pertain to existing business, new business, or both with the counterparty. The additional assurance requirements could be met with letters of credit, surety bonds, or cash deposits and would likely result in Integrys Energy Group being required to maintain increased bank lines of credit or incur additional expenses, and could restrict the amount of business Integrys Energy Services would be able to conduct. Integrys Energy Services uses the NYMEX, the ICE, and over the counter financial markets to mitigate its exposure to physical customer obligations. These contracts are closely correlated to the customer contracts, but price movements on the contracts may require financial backing. Certain movements in price for contracts through the NYMEX and the ICE require posting of cash deposits equal to the market move. For the over the counter market, the underlying contract may allow the counterparty to require additional collateral to cover the net financial differential between the original contract price and the current forward market. Increased requirements related to market price changes usually only result in a temporary liquidity need that will unwind as the sales contracts are fulfilled. Discontinued Operations Net cash provided by discontinued operations was $61.0 million in 2006 and $59.1 million in 2005. The increase in cash provided by discontinued operations in 2006 was driven by a decrease in cash paid for emission allowances required to operate Sunbury in 2006, compared to 2005 (substantially all of the emission allowances required to operate Sunbury through the 2006 sale were purchased in 2005), and from the $33.6 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunbury in 2006. These increases were partially offset by $110.9 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances in 2005 (which was partially offset by income taxes paid related to the gain on the sale of these emission allowances). Net cash provided by discontinued operations was $59.1 million in 2005, compared to net cash used for discontinued operations of $17.6 million in 2004. The increase in cash provided by discontinued operations in 2005 was driven by $110.9 million of proceeds received from the sale of Sunburys allocated emission allowances in 2005, partially offset by income taxes paid related to the gain on the sale of these emission allowances. 71 Future Capital Requirements and Resources Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the contractual obligations of Integrys Energy Group, including its subsidiaries. Contractual Obligations Total Payments Due By Period As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Amounts Committed 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Thereafter Long term debt principal and interest payments $ 2,026.8 $ 102.0 $ 311.3 $ 342.0 $ 1,271.5 Operating lease obligations 28.7 5.6 9.0 7.3 6.8 Commodity purchase obligations 5,221.7 2,565.4 1,400.1 617.4 638.8 Purchase orders 434.0 393.9 40.1 Capital contributions to equity method investment 56.6 44.2 12.4 Other 352.6 40.6 64.5 40.0 207.5 Total contractual cash obligations $ 8,120.4 $ 3,151.7 $ 1,837.4 $ 1,006.7 $ 2,124.6 Long term debt principal and interest payments represent bonds issued, notes issued, and loans made to Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries. We record all principal obligations on the balance sheet. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that the hybrid instrument discussed in Note 14 of Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, "Long Term Debt," will be retired in 2016. Energy supply contracts at Integrys Energy Services included as part of commodity purchase obligations are generally entered into to meet obligations to deliver energy to customers. WPSC, UPPCO, MGUC, and MERC expect to recover the costs of their contracts in future customer rates. Purchase orders include obligations related to normal business operations and large construction obligations, including 100% of Weston 4 obligations. The sale of a 30% interest in Weston 4 to DPC was completed in November 2005, but WPSC retains the legal obligation to initially remit payment to third parties for 100% of all construction costs incurred, 30% of which is subsequently be billed to DPC. Capital contributions to equity method investment consist of our commitment to fund a portion of ATCs Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line together with ATC. Other mainly represents expected pension and postretirement funding obligations. Capital Requirements WPSC makes large investments in capital assets. Net construction expenditures are expected to be $764.1 million in the aggregate for the 2007 through 2009 period. The largest of these expenditures is for distribution projects (which include replacement of utility poles, transformers, meters, and the like) and environmental projects. WPSC is expected to incur costs of approximately $282 million from 2007 through 2009 related to distribution projects and approximately $163 million during the same time period for environmental projects. As part of its regulated utility operations, on September 26, 2003, WPSC submitted an application for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to the PSCW seeking approval to construct Weston 4, a 500 megawatt coal fired generation facility near Wausau, Wisconsin. The facility is estimated to cost approximately $779 million (including the acquisition of coal trains), of which WPSC is responsible for slightly more than 70% (approximately $549 million) of the costs. In November 2005, DPC purchased a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4, remitting proceeds of $95.1 million for its share of the construction costs (including carrying charges) as of the closing date of the sale. WPSC is responsible for slightly more than 70% of the costs because of certain common facilities that will be installed as part of the project. WPSC will have a larger than 70% interest in these common facilities. DPC will be billed by WPSC for 30% of all remaining costs to complete the construction of the plant. As of December 31, 2006, WPSC has incurred a total cost of approximately $434 million related to its ownership interest in the project. WPSC expects to incur additional construction costs through the date the plant goes into service of approximately $115 million in addition to approximately $73 million to fund construction of the transmission facilities required to support Weston 4. ATC will reimburse WPSC for the construction costs 72 of these transmission facilities and related carrying costs when Weston 4 becomes commercially operational, which is expected to occur by June 2008. Other significant anticipated construction expenditures for WPSC during the three year period from 2007 through 2009 include approximately $73 million related to a natural gas pipeline expansion project, approximately $62 million of expenditures at WPSC generation plants to ensure continued reliability of these facilities, and corporate services infrastructure projects of approximately $45 million. On April 18, 2003, the PSCW approved WPSCs request to transfer its interest in the Wausau, Wisconsin, to Duluth, Minnesota, transmission line to ATC. Integrys Energy Group committed to fund 50% of total project costs incurred up to $198 million. Integrys Energy Group will receive additional equity in ATC in exchange for the project funding. Integrys Energy Group may terminate funding if the project extends beyond January 1, 2010. The total cost of the project is estimated at $420.3 million and it is expected that the line will be completed and placed in service in 2008. Integrys Energy Group has the right, but not the obligation, to provide additional funding in excess of $198 million up to 50% of the revised cost estimate. Integrys Energy Groups future funding of the line will be reduced by the amount funded by Allete, Inc. Allete exercised its option to fund $60 million of future capital calls for the portion of the Wausau to Duluth transmission line and had completed funding the $60 million as of February 2007. During 2007 and through the completion of the line in 2008, Integrys Energy Group expects to fund up to approximately $57 million for the Wausau to Duluth transmission line. Integrys Energy Group expects to provide additional capital contributions to ATC of approximately $75 million for the period 2007 through 2009 for other projects. Integrys Energy Groups expected capital contributions related to ATC for 2007 through 2009 are as follows: (In Millions) December 31, 2006 Wausau to Duluth transmission line $ 57.0 Capital contributions to ATC 75.0 Total future capital contributions from 2007 to 2009 related to ATC $ 132.0 UPPCO is expected to incur construction expenditures of about $47 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for electric distribution improvements and repairs and safety measures at hydroelectric facilities. MGUC is expected to incur construction expenditures of approximately $25 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for natural gas mains. MERC is expected to incur construction expenditures of approximately $46 million in the aggregate for the period 2007 through 2009, primarily for natural gas mains. Capital expenditures identified at Integrys Energy Services for 2007 through 2009 are expected to be approximately $12.7 million. In 2007, Integrys Energy Services will develop a new landfill gas project, Winnebago Energy Center Development. Winnebago Energy Center Development is a 6.5 megawatt project near Rockford, Illinois, and will consist of installing gas cleanup equipment and engines to collect and burn landfill gas at the site to generate electricity. Integrys Energy Services plans to sell the electricity in the PJM marketplace. The project is initially expected to cost approximately $9 million. Other capital expenditures at Integrys Energy Services are related to scheduled major maintenance projects at Integrys Energy Services generation facilities and computer equipment related to business expansion and planned technology upgrades. All projected capital and investment expenditures are subject to periodic review and revision and may vary significantly from the estimates depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, industry restructuring, regulatory constraints, acquisition opportunities, market volatility, and economic trends. Other capital expenditures for Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries for 2007 through 2009 could be significant depending on its success in pursuing development and acquisition opportunities. 73 When appropriate, Integrys Energy Group may seek nonrecourse financing for a portion of the cost of these acquisitions. Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006, both Integrys Energy Group and WPSC were in compliance with all of the covenants under their lines of credit and other debt obligations. For the period 2007 through 2009, Integrys Energy Group plans to use internally generated funds net of forecasted dividend payments, cash proceeds from asset sales, and debt and equity financings to fund capital requirements. Integrys Energy Group plans to maintain current debt to equity ratios at appropriate levels to support current credit ratings and corporate growth. Management believes Integrys Energy Group has adequate financial flexibility and resources to meet its future needs. In June 2006, Integrys Energy Group entered into an unsecured $500 million 5 year credit agreement. This revolving credit facility replaced the $300 million bridge credit facility discussed below and is in addition to the previously existing credit facility which also has a borrowing capacity of $500 million, bringing Integrys Energy Groups total borrowing capacity under its general credit agreements to $1 billion. Both credit facilities back Integrys Energy Groups commercial paper borrowing programs and most letters of credit. The first credit line was entered into in June 2005, and is an unsecured $500 million 5 year agreement. In June 2005, WPSC also entered into a 5 year credit facility for $115 million to replace its former 364 day credit facility for the same amount. This credit line is used to back 100% of WPSCs commercial paper borrowing programs and letters of credit for WPSC. As of December 31, 2006, there was a total of $520.1 million available under Integrys Energy Groups general credit lines, including $73.2 million available under WPSCs general credit line. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Group filed a shelf registration under the new SEC securities offering reform rules for the ability to issue debt, equity, and certain types of hybrid securities. This shelf registration statement includes the unused capacity remaining under Integrys Energy Groups prior registration statement. Specific terms and conditions of securities issued will be determined prior to the actual issuance of any specific security. Under the new SEC securities offering reform rules, Integrys Energy Group will be able to issue securities under this registration statement for three years. Integrys Energy Groups Board of Directors has authorized issuance of up to $700 million of equity, debt, or other securities under this shelf registration statement, $300 million of which was used in December 2006 when we issued the junior subordinated notes. In April 2006, Integrys Energy Services entered into a $150 million 364 day credit agreement to finance its margin requirements related to natural gas and electric contracts traded on the NYMEX and ICE, as well as the cost of natural gas in storage and for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under this agreement are guaranteed by Integrys Energy Group. As of December 31, 2006, the entire $150 million available under the credit agreement was utilized by Integrys Energy Services. In November 2005, Integrys Energy Group entered into two unsecured revolving credit agreements of $557.5 million and $300 million with J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. As discussed above, the $500 million 5 year credit agreement entered into in June 2005 replaced the $300 million bridge credit facility. The $557.5 million credit facility is a bridge facility intended to back commercial paper borrowings related to the purchase of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The capacity under the $557.5 million bridge facility is reduced by the amount of proceeds from any long term financing Integrys Energy Group completes, with the exception of proceeds received from the November 2005 equity offering. On March 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $269.5 million of commercial paper supported by the $557.5 million bridge credit facility to purchase the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan. On May 10, 2006, as a result of Integrys Energy Groups physical settlement of its forward equity agreement (and issuing 2.7 million shares of common stock upon settlement), the $557.5 million facility was reduced to $417.9 million. The $417.9 million credit agreement matures on September 5, 2007, and has representations and covenants that are similar to those in Integrys Energy Groups general credit facilities. On June 30, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $288.0 million of commercial paper supported by the remainder of the $417.9 million credit facility and the general credit facilities, to purchase the natural gas distribution 74 operations in Minnesota. Working capital and other post closing adjustments related to the acquisitions were funded by commercial paper supported by the general credit facilities. On December 1, 2006, Integrys Energy Group issued $300 million of junior subordinated notes, reducing the $417.9 million credit facility to $121 million. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," for more information related to the acquisitions of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. Other Future Considerations Merger with Peoples Energy Corporation For additional information on the merger with Peoples Energy, see Note 6, "Acquisition and Sales of Assets." Asset Management Strategy Our asset management strategy calls for continuous assessment of our existing assets as well consideration of the acquisition of assets that complement our existing business and strategy. This strategy also calls for a focus on the disposition of assets, including plants and entire business units, which are either no longer strategic to ongoing operations, are not performing as needed, or the disposition of which would reduce our risk profile. As a part of our asset management strategy, in December 2005, UPPCO sold a portion of its real estate holdings that were no longer needed for operations. See Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets," in Integrys Energy Groups Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Integrys Energy Group continues to evaluate alternatives for the sale of the balance of our identified real estate holdings no longer needed for operation. Regulatory Matters and Rate Trends Under the prevailing Wisconsin fuel rules, WPSCs 2006 electric rates were subject to adjustment when electric generation fuel and purchased power costs fell outside of a pre determined band. This band was set at +2.0% and 0.5%, for 2006 by the PSCW. On March 8, 2006, the PSCW filed a notice of proceeding to review fuel rates as WPSC fuel costs were below the 0.5% limit. On April 25, 2006, WPSC filed with the PSCW a stipulation agreement with various interveners to refund a portion of the difference between fuel costs that were projected in the 2006 Wisconsin retail rate case and actual Wisconsin retail fuel costs incurred during the first half of 2006. This refund resulted in a credit to customers bills over the months of May 2006 to August 2006. On October 2, 2006, WPSC filed for an additional refund of $15.6 million to reflect additional fuel cost savings in the third quarter of 2006. The PSCW approved this filing and ordered this amount to be refunded based on November and December usage. Customer refunds of $28.6 million were made in 2006, related to the stipulation agreement. An additional refund to customers of $13.4 million was accrued at December 31, 2006. WPSC expects to make a final refund to customers in the spring of 2007. In its 2007 rate order, WPSCs band was set at +2.0% and 2.0%, for 2007 by the PSCW. To mitigate the volatility of fuel costs in 2007 and beyond, WPSC is employing risk management techniques pursuant to its PSCW approved Risk Plan and Policy, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. In WPSCs retail electric rate case proceeding for 2006, the PSCW applied a "financial harm" test when considering the rate recovery of certain deferred costs previously authorized for accounting purposes. The PSCW has not applied a financial harm test previously when considering the rate recovery of costs that were previously authorized for deferral. In WPSCs rate case proceeding for 2006, after applying the financial harm test, the PSCW disallowed rate recovery of the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of 50% of the pre tax loss realized on the sale of Kewaunee. None of these disallowed costs were found to be imprudent by the PSCW. Notwithstanding the PSCWs decision on these Kewaunee related deferred costs, WPSC still believes it is probable that all regulatory assets recorded at December 31, 2006, will be collected from ratepayers. 75 In both 2005 and 2006, forecasting and monitoring of fuel costs have become extremely difficult for both the PSCW and WPSC. These challenges can be attributed to the implementation of the MISO Day 2 market and volatility in natural gas prices. In 2005, the PSCW received several applications from various Wisconsin electric utilities under the PSC Chapter 116 fuel rules for large rate increases due to increased natural gas prices. In response, on February 7, 2006, the PSCW opened Docket 01 AC 224 to review the fuel rules. On February 1, 2007, the five utilities subject to the current fuel rules filed proposed changes to the fuel rules with the PSCW. The primary proposed change was to replace the trigger mechanism with a true "dead band" of 1% which would limit a utilitys annual exposure or opportunity to a maximum of 1% of fuel costs. On June 29, 2006, the PSCW opened Docket 05 EI 139 to address the recovery of costs associated with the MISO Day 2 market. Testimony has been filed and hearings were held February 13, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, WPSC had recorded a regulatory asset of $20.8 million for unrecovered MISO Day 2 costs. The recoverability and the timing of recovery of this regulatory asset and other costs will be addressed in this docket. Management still believes it is probable that the regulatory asset recorded for unrecovered MISO Day 2 costs will be collected from rate payers. For a discussion of regulatory filings and decisions, see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion related to the regulatory filings and decisions made in connection with the merger with Peoples Energy Corporation, see Note 6, "Acquisitions and Sales of Assets." See Note 9, "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a list of regulatory assets recorded at December 31, 2006. Industry Restructuring Michigan Under the current Electric Choice program in Michigan, Integrys Energy Services established itself as a significant supplier to the industrial and commercial markets. However, prolonged high wholesale energy prices coupled with approved tariff changes for the regulated utilities have almost eliminated the savings customers can obtain from contracting with non utility suppliers. As a result, many customers returned to the bundled tariff service of the incumbent utilities. The high wholesale energy prices and tariff changes caused a reduction in new business and renewals for Integrys Energy Services. In 2006, Integrys Energy Services Michigan retail electric business declined to less than one fourth the peak megawatts it was in 2005, and earnings contributed by Integrys Energy Services Michigan retail electric operations in 2006 were minimal. However, both Detroit Edison and Consumers Energy have initiated proceedings before the MPSC for rate increases relating to the recovery of substantial power supply costs incurred but not included in rates in 2005. Market prices for power in 2006 also declined significantly over the past six months, further reducing the benefit that regulated utility customers have experienced. The combination of lower market prices and potentially increasing utility rates could create the necessary conditions for customers to once again contract with non utility suppliers. The status of Michigans electric markets and more specifically the MPSCs Capacity Needs Report of January 3, 2006, were the subject of hearings in both the Senate and House Energy Committees. In addition, on April 6, 2006, Governor Granholm issued an Executive Directive instructing MPSC Chair Peter Lark to complete a state energy plan. On January 31, 2007, Chairman Peter Lark submitted the states 21st Century Energy Plan to Governor Granholm. See Michigan 21st Century Energy Plan discussion below for more information. If legislation rolling back the Electric Choice market is enacted, it could diminish the benefits of competitive supply for Michigan business customers. The impact on Integrys Energy Services of all the above, coupled with the volatile wholesale power market could range from significantly increasing Michigan business to a possible decision by Integrys Energy Services to exit Michigans retail electric market and redirect resources to more vibrant markets. However, it is unlikely that the most significant stakeholder, the customer, will stand for any set of outcomes that eradicates Electric Choice. Integrys Energy Services is actively participating in the legislative and regulatory process in order to protect its interests in Michigan. 76 Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment For a discussion of SECA, see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in the Notes to Integrys Energy Groups Financial Statements. Income Taxes Synthetic Fuel Production Facility Assuming no phase out, Integrys Energy Services expects to recognize approximately $37 million of Section 29/45K federal tax credits in 2007, both from its ownership interest in a synthetic fuel facility and additional tons of synthetic fuel Integrys Energy Services will procure from one of its synthetic fuel partners. However, for 2007, we cannot predict the future prices of a barrel of oil and, therefore, have no way of knowing what portion of our 2007 tax credits will ultimately be phased out. Integrys Energy Services estimates that 2007 Section 29/45K federal tax credits will begin phasing out if the annual average NYMEX price of a barrel of oil reaches approximately $62, with a total phase out if the annual average NYMEX price of a barrel of oil reaches approximately $77. At December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services had derivative (option) contracts that mitigated approximately 75% of its volumetric exposure to Section 29/45K phase outs in 2007. The derivative contracts involve purchased and written options that provide for net cash settlement at expiration based on the annual average NYMEX trading price of oil in relation to the strike price of each option. The derivative contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the options are recorded currently as a component of nonregulated revenue. This results in mark to market gains or losses being recognized in earnings in different periods than the tax credits. Pre tax mark to market gains / (losses) recognized in 2005 and 2006 related to 2007 options were $4.4 million and ($0.5) million, respectively. This $3.9 million net gain will reverse in 2007 assuming no phase out. In addition, based upon the option contracts in place at December 31, 2006, Integrys Energy Services anticipates it would recognize approximately $16 million of realized pre tax losses in 2007 assuming no phase out, which is equivalent to the cost of mitigating the risk of phase out of 75% of the 2007 Section 29/45K tax credits. For more information on the synthetic fuel production facility, see the Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in the Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Peshtigo River Land Donation In 2004, Integrys Energy Group submitted a request to have the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) conduct a pre filing review of a tax position related to its 2004 tax return. The tax position related to the value of the Peshtigo River land donated to the WDNR in 2004, for which Integrys Energy Group recorded a $4.1 million income tax benefit. In August 2006, the IRS finished a limited issue focused examination of the 2004 Integrys Energy Group consolidated tax return, which covered several issues, including the Peshtigo River Land donation. The IRS denied the donation deduction and issued a 30 day letter granting Integrys Energy Group the right to appeal its determination. Integrys Energy Group filed its protest of the IRS examination changes on September 22, 2006. The IRS provided its response to our protest on November 1, 2006. This matter is now proceeding to IRS Appeals. We still believe our position is appropriate and will continue to pursue this matter. Environmental See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of environmental considerations. 77 Wisconsin Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act In March 2006, Wisconsin Governor Doyle signed 2005 Wisconsin Act 141 (2005 Senate Bill 459), the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act, which requires Wisconsin electric providers to increase the amount of renewable electricity they sell by 2% above their current level before 2010 and 6% above their current level by 2015. The goal is to have 10% of the states electricity generated from renewable sources by 2015, which is intended to increase the use of renewable energy in Wisconsin, promote the development of renewable energy technologies, and strengthen the states energy efficiency programs. Administrative rules are currently being drafted. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 4% of Integrys Energy Groups generation in Wisconsin is from renewable sources. Integrys Energy Group continuously evaluates alternatives for cost effective renewable energy sources and will secure reliable and efficient renewable energy sources to meet both requirements by their respective dates. Michigan 21st Century Energy Plan On January 31, 2007, MPSC Chairman Peter Lark presented the "21st Century Energy Plan" to Governor Granholm. The plan recognizes the increased need for energy in the next 20 years. The plan proposes an alternative method of receiving pre construction approval for significant generating plant additions versus the alternative of building a generating plant and then seeking approval for recovery of costs. The plan calls for legislation to implement a 10% renewable energy portfolio standard by 2015 as well as a statewide energy efficiency program. Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator WPSC, UPPCO, and Integrys Energy Services are members of the MISO, which operates an electric wholesale market in the Midwest, including Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The market pricing is based on a locational marginal pricing system. The pricing mechanism expanded the market from a physical market to also include financial instruments and is intended to send price signals to stakeholders where generation or transmission system expansion is needed. MISO participants offer their generation and bid their customer load into the market on an hourly basis. This results in net receipts from, or net obligations to, MISO for each hour of each day. MISO aggregates these hourly transactions and currently provides updated settlement statements which may reflect billing adjustments and result in an increase or decrease to the net receipt from or net obligation to MISO. The billing adjustments may or may not be recovered through the rate recovery process. Market participants may dispute the updated settlement statements and related charges. At the end of each month, the amount due from or payable to MISO is estimated for those operating days where a 7 day settlement statement is not yet available. Thus, significant changes in the estimates and new information provided by MISO in subsequent settlement statements or through tariff interpretation changes could have a material impact on our results of operations with adjustments back to the start of the market. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1(w), "New Accounting Pronouncements," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements. GUARANTEES AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP See Note 18, "Guarantees," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding guarantees. See Note 24, "Variable Interest Entities," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 46R. 78 MARKET PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Market price risk management activities include the electric and natural gas marketing and related risk management activities of Integrys Energy Services, along with oil options used to mitigate the risk of an increase in oil prices that could reduce the amount of Section 29/45K federal tax credits that could be recognized. Integrys Energy Services marketing and trading operations manage power and natural gas procurement as an integrated portfolio with its retail and wholesale sales commitments. Derivative instruments are utilized in these operations. Integrys Energy Services measures the fair value of derivative instruments (including NYMEX, ICE, and over the counter contracts, options, natural gas and electric power physical fixed price contracts, basis contracts, and related financial instruments) on a mark to market basis. The fair value of derivatives is included in assets or liabilities from risk management activities on Integrys Energy Groups Consolidated Balance Sheets. The offsetting entry when fair value adjustments are made to assets or liabilities from risk management activities is to other comprehensive income (for the effective portion of cash flow hedges) or to earnings. The fair values of derivative instruments are adjusted each reporting period using various market sources and risk management systems. The primary input for natural gas and oil pricing is the settled forward price curve of the NYMEX and the ICE. Basis pricing is derived from published indices and documented broker quotes. Integrys Energy Services also determines electric prices based on published indices and documented broker quotes. The following table provides an assessment of the factors impacting the change in the net value of Integrys Energy Services assets and liabilities from risk management activities for the year ended December 31, 2006. Integrys Energy Services Mark to Market Roll Forward (Millions) Oil Options Natural Gas Electric Total Fair value of contracts at January 1, 2006 $ 23.6 $ 8.2 $ 29.8 $ 61.6 Less: contracts realized or settled during period 26.1 78.2 25.1 129.4 Plus: changes in fair value of contracts in existence at December 31, 2006 (2.2 ) 175.2 2.411.9 175.4 Fair value of contracts at December 31, 2006 $ (4.7 ) $ 105.2 $ 7.1 $ 107.6 The fair value of contracts at January 1, 2006, and December 31, 2006, reflects the values reported on the balance sheet for net mark to market current and long term risk management assets and liabilities as of those dates. Contracts realized or settled during the period includes the value of contracts in existence at January 1, 2006, that were no longer included in the net mark to market assets as of December 31, 2006, along with the amortization of those derivatives later designated as normal purchases and sales under SFAS No. 133. Changes in fair value of contracts in existence at December 31, 2006, includes unrealized gains and losses on contracts that existed at January 1, 2006, and contracts that were entered into subsequent to January 1, 2006, which are included in Integrys Energy Services portfolio at December 31, 2006, as well as gains and losses at the inception of contracts when a liquid market exists. There were, in many cases, offsetting positions entered into and settled during the period resulting in gains or losses being realized during the current period. The realized gains or losses from these offsetting positions are not reflected in the table above. Market quotes are more readily available for short duration contracts (generally for contracts with a duration of less than five years). The table below shows the sources of fair value and maturity of Integrys Energy Services risk management instruments. Integrys Energy Services Risk Management Contract Aging at Fair Value As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Source of Fair Value Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1 to 3 Years Maturity 4 to 5 Years Maturity in Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Prices actively quoted $ 69.4 $ 26.2 $ 5.5 $ (0.3 ) $ 100.8 Prices provided by external sources (11.3 ) 10.2 7.9 6.8 Total fair value $ 58.1 $ 36.4 $ 13.4 $ (0.3 ) $ 107.6 79 We derive the pricing for most contracts in the above table from active quotes or external sources. "Prices actively quoted" includes exchange traded contracts such as NYMEX and ICE contracts and a majority of basis swaps. "Prices provided by external sources" includes electric and natural gas contract positions for which pricing information, used by Integrys Energy Services to calculate fair value, is obtained primarily through broker quotes and other publicly available sources. Integrys Energy Services employs a variety of physical and financial instruments offered in the marketplace to limit risk exposure associated with fluctuating commodity prices and volumes, enhance value, and minimize cash flow volatility. However, the application of SFAS No. 133 and its related hedge accounting rules causes Integrys Energy Services to experience earnings volatility associated with electric and natural gas operations. Integrys Energy Services use of oil options to protect the value of a portion of Integrys Energy Services Section 29/45K federal tax credits also causes earnings volatility. While risks associated with power generating facilities and power and natural gas contracts are economically hedged, certain transactions do not meet the definition of a derivative or do not qualify for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting principles. Consequently, gains and losses from these positions may not match with the income or loss on the related physical and financial hedging instruments in some reporting periods. The result causes volatility in Integrys Energy Services reported period by period earnings; however, the income statement impact of such gains or losses will reverse at the time of physical delivery and or settlement. The accounting treatment does not impact the underlying cash flows or economics of these transactions. See "Results of Operations Integrys Energy Group" for information regarding earnings volatility caused by the natural gas storage cycle. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP We have identified the following accounting policies to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements because their application requires significant judgment and reliance on estimations of matters that are inherently uncertain. Integrys Energy Groups management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Risk Management Activities Integrys Energy Group has entered into contracts that are accounted for as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended. At December 31, 2006, those derivatives not designated as hedges are primarily commodity contracts used to manage price risk associated with natural gas and electricity purchase and sale activities, as well as oil options used to manage exposure to the risk of an increase in oil prices that could reduce the amount of Section 29/45K federal tax credits we could recognize from Integrys Energy Services investment in a synthetic fuel production facility. Cash flow hedge accounting treatment may be used when Integrys Energy Groups contracts to buy or sell a commodity at a fixed price for future delivery to protect future cash flows corresponding with anticipated physical sales or purchases. Fair value hedge accounting may be used when Integrys Energy Group holds assets or firm commitments and enters into transactions that hedge the risk that the price of a commodity may change between the contracts inception and the physical delivery date of the commodity. To the extent that the hedging instrument is fully effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact on income available for common shareholders prior to settlement of the hedge. Derivatives at the utility segments do not impact income available for common shareholders because regulatory assets or liabilities are recorded pursuant to SFAS No. 71. In addition, Integrys Energy Group may apply the normal purchases and sales exception, provided by SFAS No. 133, as amended, to certain contracts. The normal purchases and sales exception provides that recognition of gains and losses in the Consolidated Financial Statements is not required until the settlement of the contracts. Derivative contracts that are determined to fall within the scope of SFAS No. 133, as amended, are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Integrys Energy Group. Changes in fair value, except those related to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges or qualifying for regulatory deferral, are generally included in the determination of income available for common shareholders at each financial reporting date until the contracts are ultimately settled. When available, quoted market prices are used to determine a contracts fair value. If no active trading market exists for a commodity or for a contracts duration, fair value is estimated through the use of internally developed 80 valuation techniques or models using external information wherever possible. Such estimates require significant judgment as to assumptions and valuation methodologies deemed appropriate by Integrys Energy Groups management. Like most commodity markets, after some length of time, markets for gas and power become relatively illiquid, making it difficult to obtain reliable price information. As a component of the fair value determination, Integrys Energy Group considers the requirements to service certain of its contracts as well as counterparty credit risk and liquidity risk. This component of the fair value determination is especially subjective because limited liquid market information is available to estimate this component. The effect of changing the underlying assumptions for this component of fair value is as follows: Change in Component Effect on Fair Value of Risk Management Assets and Liabilities at December 31, 2006 (Millions) 100% increase $18.7 decrease 50% decrease $ 9.3 increase These potential changes in fair value would be included in current and long term liabilities from risk management activities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and as part of nonregulated revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income unless the related contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case potential changes would be included in Other Comprehensive Income Cash Flow Hedges on the Consolidated Statements of Common Shareholders Equity. Purchase Accounting Our acquisitions of MGUC and MERC were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting as prescribed in SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." Management makes assumptions of fair value based upon historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. Assumptions may be incomplete, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the validity of such assumptions, estimates, or actual results. Both MGUC and MERC are predominantly regulated utilities; therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," the fair value of the majority of the assets and liabilities did not change significantly as a result of applying purchase accounting. Material environmental related pre acquisition contingencies were identified at MGUC (related to required natural gas plant remediation); however, MGUC received authorization from the MPSC to recover any prudently incurred costs related to this environmental liability in future rates. Therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 71, the environmental liability of approximately $25 million recorded for natural gas plant remediation was offset by a corresponding regulatory asset. In addition, pension and postretirement benefit obligations were identified at both MGUC and MERC. Liabilities of approximately $21 million and $17 million were recorded for MGUC and MERC, respectively and were offset with regulatory assets. As discussed below within "Asset Impairment," a significant amount of goodwill resulted from these acquisitions, which will require impairment testing on at least an annual basis. Asset Impairment Integrys Energy Group annually reviews its assets for impairment. SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long Lived Assets," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," form the basis for these analyses. The review for impairment of tangible assets is more critical to Integrys Energy Services than to our other segments because of its significant investment in property, plant, and equipment and lack of access to cost of service based rate setting that is available to our regulated segments. At December 31, 2006, the carrying value of Integrys Energy Services property, plant, and equipment totaled $125.7 million. We believe that the accounting estimate related to asset impairment of power plants is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) the estimate is susceptible to change from period to period because it requires management to make assumptions about future market sales pricing, production costs, capital expenditures, and generation volumes and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position or results of operations. Managements assumptions about future market sales 81 prices and generation volumes require significant judgment because actual market sales prices and generation volumes have fluctuated in the past as a result of changing fuel costs, environmental changes, and required plant maintenance and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The primary estimates used at Integrys Energy Services in the impairment analysis are future revenue streams and operating costs. A combination of inputs from both internal and external sources is used to project revenue streams. Integrys Energy Services forecasts future operating costs with input from external sources for fuel costs and forward energy prices. These estimates are modeled over the projected remaining life of the power plants using the methodology defined in SFAS No. 144. Integrys Energy Services evaluates property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators include a significant underperformance of the assets relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant change in the use of the assets or business strategy related to such assets, and significant negative industry or economic trends. SFAS No. 144 requires that if the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows from a companys asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, an asset impairment must be recognized in the financial statements. For assets held for sale, impairment charges are recorded if the carrying value of such assets exceeds the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The amount of impairment recognized is calculated by reducing the carrying value of the asset to its fair value (or fair value less costs to sell if held for sale). Throughout 2006, Integrys Energy Services tested its power plants for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that their carrying amount might not be recoverable. No impairment charges were recorded in 2006 as a result of the recoverability tests. Results of past impairment tests may not necessarily be an indicator of future tests given the criticality of the accounting estimates involved, as discussed more fully above. Changes in actual results or assumptions could result in an impairment. WPSC recorded goodwill of $36.4 million in its gas utility segment resulting from the Wisconsin Fuel and Light acquisition in 2001. In 2006, Integrys Energy Group recorded $267.5 million of goodwill in conjunction with the acquisition of the natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The goodwill for each of our reporting units is tested for impairment annually based on the guidance of SFAS No. 142. The test for impairment includes assumptions about future profitability of our gas utility reporting units and the correlation between our natural gas utility operations and published projections for other similar natural gas utility operations. A significant change in the natural gas utility market and or our projections of future profitability could result in a loss being recorded on the income statement as a result of the impairment test. Receivables and Reserves Our regulated natural gas and electric utilities and Integrys Energy Services accrue estimated amounts of revenue for services rendered but not yet billed. Estimated unbilled sales are calculated using actual generation and throughput volumes, recorded sales, and weather factors. The estimated unbilled sales are assigned different rates based on historical customer class allocations. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, Integrys Energy Groups unbilled revenues were $184.8 million and $151.3 million, respectively. Any difference between actual sales and the estimates are recorded in revenue in the next period. Integrys Energy Services, UPPCO, MERC and MGUC record reserves for potential uncollectible customer accounts as an expense on the income statement and an uncollectible reserve on the balance sheet. WPSC, however, records a regulatory asset to offset its uncollectible reserve. Because the nonregulated energy marketing business involves higher credit risk, the reserve is more critical to Integrys Energy Services than to our other segments. Integrys Energy Services calculates the reserve for potential uncollectible customer receivable balances by applying an estimated bad debt experience rate to each past due aging category and reserving for 100% of specific customer receivable balances deemed to be uncollectible. The basis for calculating the reserve for receivables from wholesale counterparties considers netting agreements, collateral, and guarantees. If the assumption that historical uncollectible experience matches current customer default is incorrect, or if a specific customer with a large account receivable that has not previously been identified as a risk defaults, there could be significant changes to the expense and uncollectible reserve balance. 82 Pension and Postretirement Benefits The costs of providing non contributory defined benefit pension benefits and other postretirement benefits, described in Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions regarding future experience. Pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions we make to the plan, and earnings on plan assets. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used in determining the projected benefit and other postretirement benefit obligations and pension and other postretirement benefit costs, and health care cost trends. Changes made to the plan provisions may also impact current and future pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Integrys Energy Groups pension plan assets and other postretirement benefit plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Management believes that such changes in costs would be recovered at our regulated segments through the ratemaking process. The following chart shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the projected benefit obligation and the reported annual pension cost on the income statement as they relate to all of our defined benefit pension plans. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only. Actuarial Assumption (Millions, except percentages) Percent Change in Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation Impact on Pension Cost Discount rate (0.5 ) $ 43.1 $ 3.8 Discount rate 0.5 (40.8 ) (3.2 ) Rate of return on plan assets (0.5 ) N/A 2.6 Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (2.6 ) The following chart shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation and the reported annual other postretirement benefit cost on the income statement. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only. Actuarial Assumption (Millions, except percentages) Percent Change in Assumption Impact on Postretirement Benefit Obligation Impact on Postretirement Benefit Cost Discount rate (0.5 ) $ 23.0 $ 2.0 Discount rate 0.5 (20.5 ) (1.9 ) Health care cost trend rate (1.0 ) (31.8 ) (5.4 ) Health care cost trend rate 1.0 35.2 5.8 Rate of return on plan assets (0.5 ) N/A 0.8 Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (0.8 ) In selecting an assumed discount rate, we use the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve, which considers bonds, rated by Moodys as "Aa" or better, selected from the Lehman Brothers database that are non callable. Regression analysis is applied to construct a best fit curve that makes coupon yields to maturity a function of time to maturity. The pension or retiree medical cash flows are then matched to the appropriate spot rates and discounted back to the measurement date. 83 To select an assumed long term rate of return on qualified plan assets, we consider the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target allocation of the benefit trust portfolios. The assumed long term rate of return was 8.5% in 2006, 8.5% in 2005, and 8.75% in 2004. For 2006, 2005, and 2004, the actual rates of return on pension plan assets, net of fees, were 11.3%, 6.9%, and 9.7%, respectively. We base our determination of the expected return on qualified plan assets on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. Cumulative gains and losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the pension benefit obligation or market related value are amortized over the average remaining future service to expected retirement ages. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on plan assets are recognized for purposes of calculating benefit cost over a five year period. Because of this method, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. In selecting assumed health care cost trend rates, we consider past performance and forecasts of health care costs. More information on health care cost trend rates can be found in Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a table showing future payments that Integrys Energy Group expects to make for pension and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Regulatory Accounting The electric and gas utility segments of Integrys Energy Group follow SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," and our financial statements reflect the effects of the different ratemaking principles followed by the various jurisdictions regulating these segments. We defer certain items that would otherwise be immediately recognized as expenses and revenues because our regulators have authorized deferral as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, but is generally subject to review by regulators in rate proceedings for matters such as prudence and reasonableness. Management regularly assesses whether these regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as regulatory environment changes, earnings at the utility segments, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Once approved, we amortize the regulatory assets and liabilities into income over the rate recovery period. If recovery of costs is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these regulatory assets or liabilities are recognized in current period income. If our regulated electric and gas utility segments no longer meet the criteria for application of SFAS No. 71, we would discontinue its application as defined under SFAS No. 101, "Regulated Enterprises Accounting for the Discontinuation of Application of SFAS No. 71." Assets and liabilities recognized solely due to the actions of rate regulation would no longer be recognized on the balance sheet and would be classified as an extraordinary item in income for the period in which the discontinuation occurred. A write off of all of Integrys Energy Groups regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2006, would result in a 6.1% decrease in total assets, a 5.7% decrease in total liabilities, and a 59.1% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes. A write off of all of WPSCs regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2006, would result in a 9.8% decrease in WPSCs total assets, a 15.1% decrease in WPSCs total liabilities, and an 11.4% decrease in WPSCs income before taxes. 84 Tax Provision As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes for each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We must also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance, which is offset by an adjustment to income tax expense in the income statement. The interpretation of tax laws involves uncertainty, since tax authorities may interpret them differently. We establish liabilities for tax related contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," and review them in light of changing facts and circumstances. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, our SFAS 5 tax contingency reserve and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The assumptions involved are supported by historical data and reasonable projections. Significant changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on Integrys Energy Groups financial condition and results of operations. IMPACT OF INFLATION INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and report operating results in terms of historic cost. The statements provide a reasonable, objective, and quantifiable statement of financial results, but they do not evaluate the impact of inflation. For our regulated operations, to the extent we are not recovering the effects of inflation, we will file rate cases as necessary in the various jurisdictions. Our nonregulated businesses include inflation in forecasted costs. However, any increase from inflation is offset with projected business growth. Therefore, the estimated effect of inflation on our nonregulated businesses is minor. 85 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WPSC WPSC is a regulated electric and natural gas utility as well as a holding company. Electric and natural gas operations contributed approximately 69% and 31% of revenues in 2006, respectively. 2006 Compared with 2005 WPSC Overview WPSCs earnings on common stock for the years ended December 31 are shown in the following table: WPSCs Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Earnings on common stock $99.0 $81.4 21.6% WPSCs earnings on common stock were $99.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $81.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. As discussed in more detail below, the following factors impacted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005. Electric utility earnings increased $20.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. Fuel and purchased power costs that were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), contributed an estimated $14 million after tax year over year increase in earnings. In addition, a PSCW ruling, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee nuclear plant outage as well as a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets in 2005, resulting in an after tax year over year increase in earnings of approximately $8 million. The electric rate increases at WPSC also had a positive year over year impact on earnings. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006, compared to 2005, which had an estimated $9 million year over year negative after tax impact on electric utility earnings. Natural gas utility earnings decreased $3.6 million, from earnings of $13.2 million in 2005, to earnings of $9.6 million in 2006, driven by unfavorable weather conditions and customer conservation efforts. Electric Utility Operations Electric Utility Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 990.6 $ 932.9 6.2 % Fuel and purchased power 497.0 390.6 27.2 % Margin $ 493.6 $ 542.3 (9.0 %) Sales in kilowatt hours Residential 2,871.1 2,850.3 0.7 % Commercial and industrial 8,125.1 8,183.9 (0.7 %) Wholesale 3,696.9 3,467.8 6.6 % Other 36.4 35.9 1.4 % Total sales in kilowatt hours 14,729.5 14,537.9 1.3 % Weather Heating degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Cooling degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) 86 Electric utility revenue increased $57.7 million (6.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, largely due to the approved 2006 electric rate increases for WPSCs retail electric customers (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these rate increases) and rate increases for WPSCs wholesale customers resulting from the formula rate mechanism in place for these customers. Electric sales volumes also increased 1.3%, primarily related to a 6.6% increase in sales volumes to wholesale customers due to higher demand and new wholesale contracts. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, partially offset the increases discussed above. The electric utility margin decreased $48.7 million (9.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, primarily related to the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Excluding the $54.2 million increase in fixed payments made to Dominion Energy Kewaunee during the year ended December 31, 2006, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $5.5 million, driven by the retail electric and wholesale rate increases (discussed above). In addition, fuel and purchased power costs were less than were recovered in rates during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to fuel and purchased power costs that were more than were recovered in rates during the same period in 2005 (the under collection in 2005 was primarily due to the impact the 2005 hurricanes had on natural gas prices), which had an estimated $23 million positive year over year impact on margin. The margin was also positively impacted by higher wholesale electric sales volumes, driven by higher demand from existing customers and new wholesale customer contracts. These increases were partially offset by a $70.8 million decrease in 2006 margin related to the refund to retail customers and the accrual for the refund to wholesale customers of a portion of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale customers. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in margin related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in operating and maintenance expense as explained below and, therefore, did not have an impact on earnings. Unfavorable weather conditions during both the heating and cooling seasons also negatively impacted margin by an estimated $14 million. Gas Utility Operations Gas Utility Results (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues $ 443.8 $ 522.0 (15.0 %) Purchase costs 319.8 397.4 (19.5 %) Margins 124.0 $ 124.6 (0.5 %) Throughput in therms Residential 217.0 241.6 (10.2 %) Commercial and industrial 124.6 134.7 (7.5 %) Interruptible 24.5 36.1 (32.1 %) Interdepartmental 27.6 70.8 (61.0 %) Transport 332.2 344.0 (3.4 %) Total sales in therms 725.9 827.2 (12.2 %) Weather Cooling degree days actual 6,785 7,401 (8.3 %) Heating degree days actual 521 649 (19.7 %) Natural gas utility revenue decreased $78.2 million (15.0%), from $522.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $443.8 million in 2006. Lower natural gas revenues were driven by a 12.2% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes, primarily related to a 61.0% decrease in natural gas throughput volumes to the electric utility for electric generation and a combined 9.2% decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers. The decrease in throughput volumes to the electric utility resulted from a decrease in the need for the electric utility to run its natural gas fired peaking generation units during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, and 87 from higher dispatch of these peaking generation units by MISO in 2005 for reliability purposes. The decrease in throughput volumes to residential and commercial and industrial customers was also driven by unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005, as well as customer conservation efforts. Particularly at the beginning of 2006, customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2006, natural gas prices were actually 1.4% lower on a per unit basis, compared to 2005, resulting from a large decline in the price of natural gas in the second half of 2006, also contributing to the decrease in natural gas revenue. Partially offsetting the decrease in natural gas utility revenue was WPSCs 2006 natural gas rate increase (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to this rate increase). The natural gas utility margin decreased $0.6 million (0.5%), from $124.6 million in 2005, to $124.0 million in 2006. As discussed in more detail above, a decrease in throughput volumes to higher margin residential and commercial and industrial customers was partially offset by the natural gas rate increase. The decrease in natural gas volumes sold to the electric utility did not have a significant impact on the natural gas utility margin as sales to the electric utility have very low margins. Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, Operating Expenses (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 309.9 $ 399.6 (22.4 %) Depreciation and decommissioning expense 79.6 126.0 (36.8 %) Federal income taxes 46.5 19.3 140.9 % State income taxes 9.6 6.6 45.5 % Other Income Year ended December 31, Other Income and (Deductions) (Millions) 2006 2005 Change Allowance for equity funds used during construction $ 0.6 $ 1.5 (60.0 %) Other, net 14.7 60.6 (75.7 %) Income taxes (2.9 ) (19.5 ) (85.1 %) Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses decreased $89.7 million (22.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: Partial amortization of the regulatory liability recorded for WPSCs obligation to refund proceeds received from the liquidation of the Kewaunee nonqualified decommissioning trust fund to retail and wholesale electric ratepayers contributed $70.8 million to the decrease in operating expenses in 2006, compared to 2005. Pursuant to regulatory accounting, the decrease in operating expense related to this refund was offset by a corresponding decrease in margin (as discussed in "Electric Utility Operations," above). Operating and maintenance related to the Kewaunee nuclear plant decreased approximately $17 million, driven by the sale of this facility in July 2005. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense related to Kewaunee did not have a significant impact on income available for common shareholders as WPSC is still purchasing power from this facility in the same amount as its original ownership interest. The cost of the power is included as a component of utility cost of fuel, natural gas, and purchased power. 88 In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs, creating a corresponding year over year decrease in operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits also decreased, in part due to the sale of Kewaunee in 2005. Software amortization increased $7.2 million, driven by the late 2005 implementation of a new customer billing system. Excluding Kewaunee, maintenance expenses at the electric utility segment were up $4.3 million. Planned maintenance was required on certain combustion turbines, and maintenance expense related to electric distribution assets also increased. Electric transmission expense increased $3.3 million. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense decreased $46.4 million (36.8%) for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005, driven by approximately $41 million of decommissioning expense that was recorded during 2005, compared to no decommissioning expense recorded in 2006, and a $10.2 million decrease in depreciation expense resulting from the sale of Kewaunee in July 2005. Subsequent to the sale of Kewaunee, decommissioning expense is no longer recorded. In 2005, realized gains on decommissioning trust assets were substantially offset by decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice (see analysis of "Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income" below). Continued capital investment at WPSC also partially offset the overall decrease in depreciation and decommissioning expense. Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income The period over period change in these categories was primarily related to the realized gains recognized on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005. Approximately $41 million of the decrease in other income related to the realized gains recorded on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to no gain or loss recorded on nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2006, due to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in the third quarter of 2005. The nonqualified nuclear decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which closed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains recorded in 2005 was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense during the same period (discussed above). Income tax expense related to the realized gains was offset by a deferred tax benefit related to the decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on earnings in 2005, as summarized in the table below. 89 (Millions) Income/(Expense) Depreciation and decommissioning expense $ (41 ) Federal income taxes 13 State income taxes 2 Other, net 41 Income taxes (15 ) Total earnings impact $ The remaining increase in federal and state income taxes was driven by an increase in WPSCs earnings in 2006, compared to 2005. The remaining decrease in other income was primarily related to fewer land sales occurring in 2006, compared to 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million, compared to $2.6 million in 2006. 2005 Compared with 2004 WPSC Overview WPSCs earnings on common stock for the years ended December 31 are shown in the following table: WPSCs Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Earnings on common stock $ 81.4 $ 104.8 (22.3 %) WPSCs earnings on common stock were $81.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $104.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As discussed in more detail below, the following factors negatively impacted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility earnings decreased $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Electric utility earnings were negatively impacted by fuel and purchased power costs that were $13.7 million in excess of what WPSC was allowed to recover from its customers due to inefficiencies in the fuel recovery process ($10 million related to retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers). In addition, the PSCWs ruling in the 2006 rate case, which disallowed recovery of costs that were deferred related to the 2004 Kewaunee outage and a portion of the loss on the Kewaunee sale, resulted in the write off of $13.7 million of regulatory assets. Natural gas utility earnings decreased $4.1 million, driven by higher operating and maintenance expenses and higher depreciation expense. Pre tax gains on land sales at WPSC decreased $15.0 million in 2005, compared to 2004. WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million in 2005, compared to pre tax land sale gains of $19.6 million in 2004. WPSC recognized an income tax benefit in 2004 from the donation of land to the WDNR. 90 Electric Utility Operations Electric Utility Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 932.9 $ 801.2 16.4 % Fuel and purchased power 390.6 249.9 56.3 % Margins $ 542.3 $ 551.3 (1.6 %) Sales in kilowatt hours 14,537.9 13,493.4 7.7 % Electric utility revenue increased $131.7 million (16.4%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004. Electric utility revenue increased largely due to an approved electric rate increase for WPSCs Wisconsin retail customers and an increase in electric sales volumes. On December 21, 2004, the PSCW approved a retail electric rate increase of $60.7 million (8.6%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was required primarily to recover increased costs related to fuel and purchased power, the construction of the Weston 4 power plant, and benefit costs. Electric sales volumes increased 7.7%, primarily due to significantly warmer weather during the 2005 cooling season, compared to the same period in 2004, and new power sales agreements that were entered into with wholesale customers. As a result of the warm weather, WPSC set all time records for peak electric demand in the second and third quarters of 2005. The electric utility margin decreased $9.0 million (1.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, largely driven by the sale of Kewaunee on July 5, 2005, and the related power purchase agreement. Prior to the sale of Kewaunee, only nuclear fuel expense was reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. Subsequent to the sale, all payments to Dominion for power purchased from Kewaunee are reported as a component of fuel and purchased power costs. These include both variable payments for energy delivered and fixed payments. As a result of the sale, WPSC no longer incurs operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and decommissioning expense, or interest expense for Kewaunee. Excluding the $43.2 million of fixed payments made to Dominion in 2005, WPSCs electric utility margin increased $34.2 million compared to 2004. This increase in margin was primarily related to the approved 2005 retail electric rate increase discussed above and the warm summer weather conditions, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs associated with high natural gas prices and the PSCWs disallowance of certain costs in its decision on the rate case for 2006 for WPSC (these costs were previously approved for deferral). Fuel and purchased power costs incurred in 2005 exceeded the amount recovered from ratepayers by $13.7 million (of which $10 million related to Wisconsin retail customers and $3.7 million related to wholesale customers), negatively impacting margin. The increase in fuel and purchased power costs resulted primarily from the destruction of certain natural gas production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico by hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005, driving up the per unit cost of natural gas used in generation. The quantity of power generated from WPSCs natural gas fired units was also up 162% over the prior year, driven by the warm summer weather conditions experienced during 2005, increased dispatch by the MISO for reliability purposes, and purchases through a power purchase agreement from the Fox Energy Center (which began operating in June 2005). Certain costs related to the MISO were approved for deferral. Authorization was requested from the PSCW to defer increased natural gas costs related to the hurricanes, but this request was denied, leaving the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism as the only option for recovery. However, because of the way the Wisconsin fuel recovery mechanism works, the $10 million increase in costs (primarily related to the combination of rising natural gas prices caused by the hurricanes and the increase in natural gas fired generation) were essentially unrecoverable since they were incurred late in the year. To mitigate the risk of unrecoverable fuel costs in 2006 due to market price volatility, WPSC employed risk management techniques pursuant to its risk policy approved by the PSCW, including the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. The PSCW also disallowed recovery of $5.5 million of increased fuel and purchased power costs related to an extended outage at Kewaunee in 2004, resulting in this deferral being written off in the fourth quarter of 2005. 91 Electric utility earnings decreased $5.1 million (7.8%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The decrease in earnings resulted from the high fuel and purchased power costs that WPSC was unable to recover from its Wisconsin retail and wholesale customers, the PSCWs disallowance of previously deferred costs related to Kewaunee, and an increase in operating and maintenance expenses. Gas Utility Operations Gas Utility Results (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues $ 522.0 $ 420.9 24.0 % Purchase costs 397.4 301.9 31.6 % Margins $ 124.6 $ 119.0 4.7 % Throughput in therms 827.2 801.3 3.2 % Gas utility revenue increased $101.1 million (24.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Gas utility revenue increased primarily as a result of an increase in the per unit cost of natural gas, a natural gas rate increase, and higher natural gas throughput volumes. Natural gas costs increased 24.6% (on a per unit basis) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. Following regulatory practice, WPSC passes changes in the total cost of natural gas on to customers through a purchased gas adjustment clause, as allowed by the PSCW and the MPSC. The PSCW issued an order authorizing a natural gas rate increase of $5.6 million (1.1%), effective January 1, 2005. The rate increase was primarily driven by higher benefit costs and the cost of natural gas distribution system improvements. Natural gas throughput volumes increased 3.2%, driven by an increase in interdepartmental sales from the natural gas utility to the electric utility as a result of increased generation from combustion turbines. Higher natural gas throughput volumes from interdepartmental sales to the electric utility were partially offset by lower natural gas throughput volumes to residential customers, driven by milder weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. WPSC also believes customers were taking measures to conserve energy as a result of the high natural gas prices. The natural gas utility margin increased $5.6 million (4.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The higher natural gas utility margin was largely due to the rate increase mentioned above. The increase in interdepartmental sales volumes to WPSCs electric utility also had a positive impact on the natural gas margin. Gas utility earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased $4.1 million, primarily due to an increase in operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation expense incurred by the gas utility. Operating Expenses Operating Expenses (Millions) 2005 2004 Change Operating and maintenance expense $ 399.6 $ 386.0 3.5 % Depreciation and decommissioning expense 126.0 91.0 38.5 % Operating and Maintenance Expense Operating and maintenance expenses increased $13.6 million (3.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. The following items were the most significant contributors to the change in operating and maintenance expenses at WPSC: The combined increase in pension expense, active and postretirement medical expense, salaries, and customer service expense was approximately $25 million. Transmission related expenses increased $9.9 million. 92 In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW concluded that only half of the loss related to the sale of Kewaunee could be collected from ratepayers. As a result, in 2005 WPSC wrote off $6.1 million of the regulatory asset established for the loss on the sale of Kewaunee. In WPSCs rate case, the PSCW also disallowed recovery of increased operating and maintenance expenses related to the 2004 extended outage at Kewaunee, resulting in a $2.1 million write off in 2005 of previously deferred costs. The increases discussed above were partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expenses of approximately $28 million related to Kewaunee, due to the sale of this facility on July 5, 2005. Depreciation and Decommissioning Expense Depreciation and decommissioning expense increased $35.0 million (38.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004, driven by higher gains on decommissioning trust assets prior to the sale of Kewaunee of approximately $35 million. Realized gains on decommissioning trust assets (included as a component of miscellaneous income) offset the increased decommissioning expense pursuant to regulatory practice. Continued capital investment at WPSC also resulted in an increase in depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by a $7.0 million decrease in depreciation resulting from the sale of the Kewaunee assets in July 2005. Federal Income Taxes/State Income Taxes/Other Income The period over period change in these account balances was primarily related to the increase in realized gains recognized on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005. Approximately $35 million of the increase in other income related to the realized gains on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets. The nonqualified nuclear decommissioning trust assets were placed in more conservative investments in the second quarter of 2005 in anticipation of the sale of Kewaunee, which closed on July 5, 2005. Pursuant to regulatory practice, the increase in miscellaneous income related to the realized gains was offset by an increase in decommissioning expense. Income tax expense related to the realized gains was offset by a deferred tax benefit related to the decommissioning expense. Overall, the change in the investment strategy for the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets had no impact on earnings, as summarized in the table below. (Millions) Income/(Expense) Depreciation and decommissioning expense $ (35 ) Federal income taxes 13 State income taxes 2 Other, net 35 Income taxes (15 ) Total earnings impact $ Other income at WPSC increased $9.6 million (29.1%) in 2005 compared to 2004. Excluding the increase in other income related to higher realized gains on the nonqualified decommissioning trust assets in 2005 and the decrease in other income related to higher income taxes related to these realized gains, miscellaneous income decreased approximately $10 million. The remaining decrease was primarily driven by a $15.0 million decrease in pre tax gains on land sales. WPSC recognized pre tax land sale gains of $4.6 million in 2005, compared to pre tax land sale gains of $19.6 million in 2004. This decrease was partially offset by DPCs reimbursement of $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC related to the Weston 4 power plant. The reimbursement was recorded within miscellaneous income. WPSC sold a 30% interest in the Weston 4 power plant to DPC in the fourth quarter of 2005. Proceeds received from the sale included a reimbursement for approximately $8 million of carrying costs incurred by WPSC for capital expenditures related to DPCs portion of the facility, which were funded by WPSC in 2004 and 2005. 93 BALANCE SHEET WPSC 2006 Compared with 2005 Net utility plant increased $190.4 million (10.8%), from $1,768.7 million at December 31, 2005, to $1,959.1 million at December 31, 2006. The major contributors to the change in net utility plant are summarized below: Capital expenditures recorded in 2006 were $302.9 million, of which $146 million related to the construction of Weston 4. Depreciation expense of $79.6 million was recorded in 2006. Regulatory assets increased $23.9 million (9.0%), from $266.4 million at December 31, 2005, to $290.3 million at December 31, 2006, driven by an increase in the regulatory asset for pension and postretirement benefit items related to WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The $56.4 million long term receivable from related parties was recorded in 2006 primarily as a result of WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Investments and other assets decreased $36.5 million (24.8%), from $147.2 million at December 31, 2005, to $110.7 million at December 31, 2006. The decrease was driven by the reversal of the intangible pension asset ($39.7 million at December 31, 2005) in conjunction with WPSCs adoption of SFAS No. 158. See Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. In total, short term and long term debt increased $109.5 million (18.8%), from $581.1 million at December 31, 2005, to $690.6 million at December 31, 2006. In 2006, additional borrowings were primarily utilized to fund capital expenditures, the largest being the construction of Weston 4. Regulatory liabilities decreased $82.6 million (23.3%), from $354.6 million at December 31, 2005, to $272.0 million at December 31, 2006, driven by a decrease in the regulatory liability related to proceeds received from the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale. WPSC amortized $70.8 million of the regulatory liability related to the liquidation of the nonqualified decommissioning trust fund in 2006. Pension and postretirement benefit obligations increased $106.0 million (131.7%), from $80.5 million at December 31, 2005, to $186.5 million at December 31, 2006. The increase was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 158 on December 31, 2006 (see Note 19, "Employee Benefit Plans," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES WPSC WPSC believes that its cash, operating cash flows, and borrowing ability because of strong credit ratings, when taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. However, WPSCs operating cash flow and access to capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside its control. In addition, WPSCs borrowing costs can be impacted by its short term and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which in part are based on certain credit measures such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. Currently, WPSC believes these ratings continue to be among the best in the energy industry (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for more information). 94 Operating Cash Flows During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $217.4 million, compared with $87.5 million in 2005. The $129.9 million year over year increase was driven by cash used for expenditures incurred in 2005 related to the unplanned outage at Kewaunee, the start up of MISO, and coal shortages (these items are discussed below and have only partially been collected from ratepayers), a $33.6 million reduction in cash required to fund working capital requirements in 2006, and $33.6 million of cash received from MGUC and MERC in 2006 related to WPSCs assumption of their pension and post retirement obligations. A decrease in the per unit cost of natural gas in 2006 compared to 2005 drove the lower working capital requirements at WPSC. During 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $87.5 million, compared with $213.9 million in 2004. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven by various expenditures incurred in 2005, which will not be collected from ratepayers until future years. In 2005, expenditures incurred related to the unplanned Kewaunee outage were approximately $49 million, expenditures incurred related to MISO were approximately $21 million, and increased costs related to coal shortages were approximately $6 million (see Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these regulatory assets). A $26.8 million increase in cash required to fund working capital requirements also contributed to the decrease in cash provided by operating activities. An increase in the per unit cost of natural gas drove the higher working capital requirements. Pension and postretirement funding also increased $10.8 million in 2005, compared to 2004. Investing Cash Flows Net cash used for investing activities was $321.2 million in 2006, compared to $64.5 million in 2005. The $256.7 million year over year increase in cash used for investing activities was related to $112.5 million of proceeds received in 2005 related to the sale of Kewaunee, $127.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from the liquidation of the related non qualified decommissioning trust, and $95.1 million of proceeds received in 2005 from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. Also contributing to the increase was the deposit of $22.0 million of funds into an escrow account in 2006 for the payment of the outstanding principal balance of first mortgage bonds in January 2007 (discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" significant financing activities). These items were partially offset by a $97.4 million decrease in capital expenditures in 2006 (discussed below). Net cash used for investing activities was $64.5 million in 2005, compared to $252.0 million in 2004. The $187.5 million decrease in cash used for investing activities was driven by proceeds of $127.1 million received from the liquidation of the non qualified decommissioning trust in connection with the Kewaunee sale, $112.5 million of proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, and $95.1 million of proceeds received from DPC upon closing of the sale of a 30% ownership interest in Weston 4. The decrease was partially offset by a $127.5 million increase in capital expenditures, primarily related to the construction of Weston 4. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows: Years Ended December 31, (Millions) 2006 2005 2004 Electric utility $ 268.4 $ 363.9 $ 210.1 Natural gas utility 34.5 36.4 62.7 WPSC Consolidated $ 302.9 $ 400.3 $ 272.8 95 The decrease in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2006 compared to 2005 was mainly due to lower capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Weston 4 is expected to be commercially operational by June 2008. The increase in capital expenditures at the electric utility in 2005, as compared to 2004 was mainly due to higher capital expenditures associated with the construction of Weston 4. Gas utility capital expenditures decreased primarily due to completion of the automated meter reading project. Financing Cash Flows Net cash provided by financing activities was $102.1 million in 2006, compared to net cash used for financing activities of $24.0 million in 2005. The change was primarily driven by the issuance of $147.0 million of long term debt to finance capital expenditures. In 2005, capital expenditures were primarily financed by proceeds received from the sale of Kewaunee, proceeds received from the liquidation of the non qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, and proceeds received from the sale to DPC of a partial interest in the Weston 4 power plant. Net cash used for financing activities was $24.0 million in 2005, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $36.9 million in 2004. Although cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2005, compared to 2004, this decrease was more than offset by a decrease in cash used for investing activities, related to proceeds received from various asset sales in 2005. Significant Financing Activities See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for detailed information on significant financing activities for WPSC. Credit Ratings See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group" for detailed information on WPSCs credit ratings. Future Capital Requirements and Resources Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the contractual obligations of WPSC, including its subsidiaries. Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2006 (Millions) Total Amounts Committed 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Thereafter Long term debt principal and interest payments $ 1,056.4 $ 55.0 $ 66.7 $ 216.7 $ 718.0 Operating lease obligations 18.5 3.7 5.9 4.6 4.3 Commodity purchase obligations 1,827.1 330.4 519.7 427.5 549.5 Purchase orders 319.6 279.5 40.1 Other 352.6 40.6 64.5 40.0 207.5 Total contractual cash obligations $ 3,574.2 $ 709.2 $ 696.9 $ 688.8 $ 1,479.3 Long term debt principal and interest payments represent bonds issued, notes issued, and loans made to WPSC. We record all principal obligations on the balance sheet. The costs of commodity purchase obligations are expected to be recovered in future customer rates. Purchase orders include obligations related to normal business operations and large construction obligations, including 100% of Weston 4 obligations. The sale of a 30% interest in Weston 4 to DPC was completed in November 2005, but WPSC 96 retains the legal obligation to initially remit payment to third parties for 100% of all construction costs incurred, 30% of which will subsequently be billed to DPC. Other mainly represents expected pension and postretirement funding obligations. Capital Requirements See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on capital requirements for WPSC. Capital Resources See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on capital resources for WPSC. Other Future Considerations Asset Management Strategy See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on asset management strategy. Regulatory Matters and Rate Trends See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on regulatory matters and rate trends. Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment See Note 23, "Regulatory Environment," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on the Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment. Income Taxes See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on income tax matters applicable to WPSC. Environmental See Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of environmental considerations. Wisconsin Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act See "Other Future Considerations Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Act. Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator See "Liquidity and Capital Resources Integrys Energy Group," for detailed information on MISO. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1(w), "New Accounting Pronouncements," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 97 GUARANTEES AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS WPSC See Note 18, "Guarantees," in Integrys Energy Groups Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding WPSCs guarantees. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES WPSC See "Critical Accounting Policies Integrys Energy Group," for information regarding WPSCs critical accounting policies. IMPACT OF INFLATION WPSC See "Impact of Inflation Integrys Energy Group," for information regarding the impact of inflation on WPSC. 98 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risks and Other Significant Risks Integrys Energy Group has potential market risk exposure related to commodity price risk (including regulatory recovery risk), interest rate risk, equity return risk, and principal preservation risk. Integrys Energy Group is also exposed to other significant risks due to the nature of our subsidiaries business and the environment in which we operate. Integrys Energy Group has risk management policies in place to monitor and assist in controlling these risks and may use derivative and other instruments to manage some of these exposures, as further described below. Commodity Price Risk and Regulatory Recovery Risk Utilities The electric utilities of Integrys Energy Group purchase natural gas and coal for use in power generation. They also purchase power on the MISO market at a price that is often reflective of the underlying cost of natural gas used in power generation. As a result, the electric utilities are subject to commodity price risk, which they manage in a number of ways, the primary method being fuel recovery mechanisms. Prudent fuel and purchased power costs are recovered under one for one recovery mechanisms by UPPCO and by the Michigan electric operations and wholesale operations of WPSC. The costs of natural gas used by the natural gas utility subsidiaries are generally also recovered under one for one recovery mechanisms. These recovery mechanisms greatly reduce commodity price risk for the utilities. WPSCs Wisconsin retail electric operations do not have a one for one recovery mechanism for price fluctuations, but annual rate cases have mitigated the year to year price risk. For intra year price risk, a "fuel window" mechanism is used to recover costs resulting from significant price volatility. Under the fuel window, if actual fuel and purchased power costs deviate by more than 2% (the range for 2007 and 2008), a rate review can be triggered. Once a rate review is triggered, rates may be reset (subject to PSCW approval) for the remainder of the year to recover, on an annualized basis, the projected increase in the cost of fuel and purchased power. For 2008, under the order approving the merger of Integrys Energy Group with Peoples Energy, WPSC will be allowed to adjust Wisconsin retail electric rates effective January 1, 2008, to take into account the impact of natural gas prices on purchased power costs, as well as changes in the price of coal, rail costs to ship the coal, and natural gas used for fuel. However, for 2008, WPSC will not be allowed to adjust retail electric rates for other changes. To manage commodity price risk, our regulated utilities enter into contracts of various durations for the purchase and or sale of natural gas, fuel for electric generation, and electricity. In addition, the electric operation of WPSC and the natural gas operation of MERC are employing risk management techniques pursuant to the risk policies approved by their respective regulators, which include the use of derivative instruments such as futures and options. Nonregulated Subsidiary For purposes of risk management disclosure, Integrys Energy Services activities are classified as non trading. Integrys Energy Services has the ability to reduce market price risk and extract additional value from its merchant generation plants through the use of various financial and physical tools (including forward contracts and options). Integrys Energy Services also utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage market risks related to its retail supply portfolio. To measure commodity price risk exposure, Integrys Energy Group employs a number of controls and processes, including a value at risk (VaR) analysis of its exposures. Integrys Energy Services VaR calculation is utilized to quantify exposure to market risk associated with its marketing and trading portfolio (primarily natural gas and power positions), which includes near term positions managed under its asset management strategy through tolling agreements with the merchant generating fleet, but 99 excludes the long dated positions created by the merchant generating fleet and associated coal, sulfur dioxide emission allowances, and other ancillary fuels. VaR is used to describe a probabilistic approach to quantifying the exposure to market risk. The VaR amount represents an estimate of the potential change in fair value that could occur from changes in market factors, within a given confidence level, if an instrument or portfolio is held for a specified time period. VaR models are relatively sophisticated. However, the quantitative risk information is limited by the parameters established in creating the model. The instruments being used may have features that could trigger a potential loss in excess of the calculated amount if the changes in the underlying commodity price exceed the confidence level of the model used. VaR is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. In addition to VaR, Integrys Energy Services employs other risk measurements including mark to market valuations and stress testing. In conjunction with the VaR, these other risk measurements provide the risk management analysis for Integrys Energy Services risk exposure. Integrys Energy Services VaR is estimated using a delta normal approximation based on an one day holding period and a 95% confidence level. The delta normal approximation is based on the assumption that changes in the value of the portfolio over short time periods, such as one day, are normally distributed. Integrys Energy Services VaR calculation includes derivative financial and commodity instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps, and options as well as commodities held in inventory, such as natural gas held in storage to the extent such positions are significant. The VaR for Integrys Energy Services trading portfolio is presented in the following table: (Millions) 2006 2005 95% confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed December 31 0.9 $1.7 Average for twelve months ended December 31 1.1 1.0 High for 12 months ended December 31 1.5 1.7 Low for 12 months ended December 31 0.9 0.5 The VaR amount for Integrys Energy Services decreased $0.8 million from December 31, 2005, to December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2005, the VaR reflected extreme price volatility in the market, post hurricane production shut ins, and unusual fluctuations in the various portfolios. The average, high, and low amounts were computed using the VaR amounts at each of the four quarter ends. Interest Rate Risk Integrys Energy Group and WPSC are exposed to interest rate risk resulting from their variable rate long term debt and short term borrowings. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of variable rate obligations and continually monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC enter into long term fixed rate debt when it is advantageous to do so. Integrys Energy Group and WPSC may also enter into derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, to mitigate interest rate exposure. In the second quarter of 2005, a variable rate non recourse debt instrument used to finance the purchase of Sunbury was restructured to an Integrys Energy Group obligation. Subsequent to the restructuring, an interest rate swap that had been used to fix the interest on the Sunbury non recourse debt was re designated as a cash flow hedge, along with an additional interest rate swap, to fix the interest rate on the Integrys Energy Group obligation. Due to increases in short term borrowings during 2006, Integrys Energy Group has increased its exposure to variable interest rates. Based on the variable rate debt of Integrys Energy Group and WPSC outstanding at December 31, 2006, a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points in 2006 would have increased annual interest expense in 2006 by approximately $7.5 million at Integrys Energy Group and $0.5 million at WPSC. Comparatively, based on the variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2005, an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would have increased interest expense in 2005 by approximately $2.9 million at Integrys Energy Group and $0.9 million at WPSC. This 100 sensitivity analysis was performed assuming a constant level of variable rate debt during the period and an immediate increase in interest rates, with no other changes for the remainder of the period. In the event of a significant change in interest rates, management would take action to mitigate Integrys Energy Groups and WPSCs exposure to the change. Equity Return and Principal Preservation Risk Integrys Energy Group and WPSC currently fund liabilities related to employee benefits through various external trust funds. The trust funds are managed by numerous investment managers and hold investments in debt and equity securities. Changes in the market value of these investments can have an impact on the future expenses related to these liabilities. Integrys Energy Group maintains a qualified pension plan for employees retirement. Declines in the equity markets or declines in interest rates may result in increased future pension costs for the plan and possible future required contributions. Changes in the market value of investments related to other employee benefits could also impact future contributions. Integrys Energy Group monitors the trust fund portfolio by benchmarking the performance of the investments against certain security indices. Most of the employee benefit costs relate to Integrys Energy Groups regulated utilities. As such, the majority of these costs are recovered in customers rates, mitigating the equity return and principal preservation risk on these exposures. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Integrys Energy Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of foreign operations owned and operated in Canada and transactions denominated in Canadian dollars for the purchase and sale of natural gas and electricity by our nonregulated subsidiaries. Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and sales commitments denominated in Canadian dollars and certain Canadian dollar denominated asset and liability positions. Integrys Energy Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was not significant at December 31, 2006, or 2005. 101 
 
