FILE:XRAY/XRAY-8K-20050111170501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ---------------------------------------------- CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report January 10, 2005 (Date of earliest event reported) DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC (Exact name of Company as specified in charter) Delaware 0-16211 39-1434669 (State of Incorporation) (Commission (IRS Employer File Number) Identification No.) 221 West Philadelphia Street, York, Pennsylvania 17405 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (717) 845-7511 (Company's telephone number including area code)
Item 5.02. - Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5.02(c) related to the appointment of certain new officers. On January 10, 2005, the Company appointed Mr. William R. Jellison to the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The announcement related to this appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference. The terms of Mr. Jellison's employment agreement with the Company are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Company's 1998 Form 10-K filed on March 26, 1999. Item 9.01. - Financial Statements and Exhibits (a) Financial Statements - Not applicable. (b) Exhibits: 99.1 The announcement related to the appointment of Mr. William R. Jellison to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer released on January 10, 2005 as referenced in Item 5.02.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC (Company) /s/Brian M. Addison Brian M. Addison Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Date: January 11, 2005

Contact: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE George Rhodes Corporate Communications (717) 849-4273 DENTSPLY ANNOUNCES EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS York, PA -January 10, 2005 - DENTSPLY International Inc. (Nasdaq-XRAY) today announced the appointments of Mr. Bret W. Wise, 44, to Executive Vice President and Mr. William R. Jellison, 46, to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The announcements were made by Mr. Gary K. Kunkle, Jr., Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who commented, "Both gentlemen have excelled in their DENTSPLY positions. They are valuable executive performers and outstanding contributors to the growth and strategic direction of the business." Mr. Bret W. Wise joined DENTSPLY in November of 2002 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He has proven himself to be a capable leader in working with the Company's operating groups in strategic finance and operating matters as well as enhancing the Company's financial accounting and disclosure controls in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In his new position as Executive Vice President, he will assume responsibility for two of the four operating senior vice president positions with primary focus in North America and Europe, as well as business development, and the research and development function. He came to the Company following a very successful career with the Ferro Corporation of Cleveland, OH, where he served as senior vice president and CFO. Prior to this he held an executive position with WCI Steel, Inc., of Warren, OH, and was formerly a partner with KPMG. A Certified Public Accountant, Mr. Wise earned his Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from the Indiana University School of Business in Bloomington, IN. Mr. William R. Jellison joined DENTSPLY in April of 1998 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. During his tenure in that position, he was instrumental in transforming the financial organization into a true strategic partner within the Company. To broaden his operational experience, in November of 2002, he was appointed Senior Vice President responsible for the DENTSPLY Professional Division, the Company's Asian operations and worldwide endodontic franchise comprising the Tulsa Dental, Maillefer and VDW Divisions. Under his leadership, those businesses have made many contributions to the Company's success. This operational experience will be a great asset in meeting the expanded role of a Chief Financial Officer in today's environment.
Mr. Jellison joined DENTSPLY after a successful 18-year career with the Donnelly Corporation of Holland, MI, where he most recently served as vice president of finance. A Certified Management Accountant, Mr. Jellison earned his Bachelor's degree in business administration from Hope College in Holland, MI. He is a member of the Institute of Management Accountants and is also affiliated with the Financial Executive Institute. DENTSPLY designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of products for the dental market. The Company believes that it is the world's leading manufacturer and distributor of dental prosthetics, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, endodontic instruments and materials, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, ultrasonic scalers, and crown and bridge materials; the leading United States manufacturer and distributor of dental handpieces, dental x-ray film holders, film mounts and bone substitute/grafting materials; and a leading worldwide manufacturer or distributor of dental injectible anesthetics, impression materials, orthodontic appliances, dental cutting instruments and dental implants. The Company distributes its dental products in over 120 countries under some of the most well established brand names in the industry. DENTSPLY is committed to the development of innovative, high quality, cost-effective new products for the dental market. ###


