FILE:XRAY/XRAY-8K-20091021154046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:   _____ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)   _____ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)   _____ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))   _____ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On October 16, 2009, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with a group of initial purchasers, providing for the issuance by the Company on a delayed basis, no later than February 19, 2010, of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of fixed rate 4.11% Senior Notes with an average maturity of five years and a final maturity in six years, through a private placement. The net proceeds after deducting fees and expenses of the loan are $250.0 million.  The proceeds will be used to refinance the March 15, 2010 $150.0 million Private Placement Note and general corporate pu
rposes.  The obligations of Dentsply
and the lenders are subject to the terms and conditions of the Note Purchase Agreement
,
which is attached as exhibit 99.1
.
For further information in accordance with item 2.03, please reference exhibit 99.1.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. This current report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes.
 
Th
e information provided in Item 2.03
of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporat
ed by reference into this Item 1
.0
1
.
SIGNATURES     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company
has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
hereunto duly authorized.     DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC (Company)      
/s/ Brian M. Addison Brian M. Addison Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
Date:
October 16, 2009

means, with respect to any holder of any Note, any fund or entity that (a) invests in Securities or bank loans, and (b) is advised or managed by such holder, the same investment advisor as such holder or by an affiliate of such holder or such investment advisor.
 
 
 
 
 
1.     Authorization of Notes     1
1.1.     Description of Notes     1
1.2.     Interest Rate Increase     1
2.     Sale and Purchase of Notes     2
3.     Closing     2
4.     Conditions to Closing     2
4.1.     Representations and Warranties     2
4.2.     Performance; No Default     2
4.3.     Compliance Certificates     3
4.4.     Opinions of Counsel     3
4.5.     Purchase Permitted By Applicable Law, Etc     3
4.6.     Sale of Other Notes     3
4.7.     Payment of Special Counsel Fees     3
4.8.     Private Placement Number     4
4.9.     Changes in Corporate Structure     4
4.10.     Funding Instructions     4
4.11.     Proceedings and Documents     4
5.     Representations and Warranties of the Company     4
5.1.     Organization; Power and Authority     4
5.2.     Authorization, Etc     5
5.3.     Disclosure     5
5.4.     Organization and Ownership of Shares of Subsidiaries; Affiliates     5
5.5.     Financial Statements; Material Liabilities     6
5.6.     Compliance with Laws, Other Instruments, Etc     6
5.7.     Governmental Authorizations, Etc     6
5.8.     Litigation; Observance of Agreements, Statutes and Orders     7
5.9.     Taxes     7
5.10.     Title to Property; Leases     7
5.11.     Licenses, Permits, Etc     8
5.12.     Compliance with ERISA     8
5.13.     Private Offering by the Company     9
5.14.     Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations     9
5.15.     Existing Debt; Future Liens     10
5.16.     Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Etc     10
5.17.     Status under Certain Statutes     11
5.18.     Environmental Matters     11
5.19.     Notes Rank Pari Passu     11
6.     Representations of the Purchaser     11
6.1.     Purchase for Investment     11
6.2.     Accredited Investor     12
6.3.     Source of Funds     12
7.     Information as to Company     13
7.1.     Financial and Business Information     13
7.2.     Officers Certificate     16
7.3.     Visitation     16
8.     Payment of the Notes     17
8.1.     Required Prepayments     17
8.2.     Optional Prepayments with Make-Whole Amount     17
8.3.     Prepayment of Notes Upon Change of Control     18
8.4.     Prepayment of Notes Upon Sale of Assets     19
8.5.     Allocation of Partial Prepayments     19
8.6.     Maturity; Surrender, Etc     20
8.7.     Purchase of Notes     20
8.8.     Make-Whole Amount     20
9.     Affirmative Covenants     21
9.1.     Compliance with Law     22
9.2.     Insurance     22
9.3.     Maintenance of Properties     22
9.4.     Payment of Taxes and Claims     22
9.5.     Corporate Existence, Etc     23
9.6.     Designation of Subsidiaries     23
9.7.     Notes to Rank Pari Passu     23
9.8.     Subsidiary Guarantors     23
9.9.     Books and Records     24
10.     Negative Covenants     24
10.1.     Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA     24
10.2.     Priority Debt     24
10.3.     Limitation on Liens     25
10.4.     Sales of Assets     26
10.5.     Merger and Consolidation     28
10.6.     Transactions with Affiliates     28
10.7.     Terrorism Sanctions Regulations     29
10.8.     Line of Business     29
10.9.     Restricted Subsidiary Group     29
11.     Events of Default     29
12.     Remedies on Default, Etc     31
12.1.     Acceleration     31
12.2.     Other Remedies     32
12.3.     Rescission     32
12.4.     No Waivers or Election of Remedies, Expenses, Etc     33
13.     Registration; Exchange; Substitution of Notes     33
13.1.     Registration of Notes     33
13.2.     Transfer and Exchange of Notes     33
13.3.     Replacement of Notes     34
14.     Payments on Notes     34
14.1.     Place of Payment     34
14.2.     Home Office Payment     35
15.     Expenses, Etc     35
15.1.     Transaction Expenses     35
15.2.     Survival     35
16.     Survival of Representations and Warranties; Entire Agreement     36
17.     Amendment and Waiver     36
17.1.     Requirements     36
17.2.     Solicitation of Holders of Notes     36
17.3.     Binding Effect, Etc     37
17.4.     Notes Held by Company, Etc     37
18.     Notices     37
19.     Reproduction of Documents     38
20.     Confidential Information     38
21.     Substitution of Purchaser     39
22.     Miscellaneous     39
22.1.     Successors and Assigns     40
22.2.     Payments Due on Non-Business Days     40
22.3.     Accounting Terms     40
22.4.     Severability     40
22.5.     Construction     40
22.6.     Counterparts     41
22.7.     Governing Law     41
22.8.     Jurisdiction and Process; Waiver of Jury Trial     41
 
          
Schedule A
Information Relating to Purchasers
     
Schedule B     
Defined Terms
Schedule 5.4          Subsidiaries of the Company, Ownership of Subsidiary Stock, Affiliates
Schedule 5.11          Licenses, Permits, Etc.
Schedule 5.15          Existing Debt
Schedule 10.3          Existing Liens
Exhibit 1          Form of 4.11% Senior Note
Exhibit 4.4(a)          Form of Opinion of General Counsel to the Company
Exhibit 4.4(b)          Form of Opinion of Special Counsel to the Purchasers
 
 
Dated as of October 16, 2009
To the Purchasers listed in
the attached Schedule A:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
., a Delaware corporation (the ), agrees with the Purchasers listed in the attached Schedule A (the ) to this Note Purchase Agreement as follows:
Dentsply International Inc
Company
Purchasers
The Company will authorize the issue and sale of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.11% Senior Notes due on the sixth anniversary of the Closing Date (the , such term to include any such notes issued in substitution therefor pursuant to Section 13 of this Agreement). The Notes shall be substantially in the form set out in Exhibit 1, with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by the Purchasers and the Company. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Schedule B; references to a Schedule or an Exhibit are, unless otherwise specified, to a Schedule or an Exhibit attached to this Agreement.
Notes
If, during a Transition Period, the Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio exceeds 3.50 to 1.00, as evidenced by an Officers Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 7.2(a), the interest rate otherwise applicable to the Notes shall be increased by 0.25% per annum, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter following the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Officers Certificate was delivered and continuing until the Company has provided an Officers Certificate pursuant to Section 7.2(a) demonstrating that, as of the end of the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Certificate is delivered, the Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio is not more than 3.50 to 1.00. Following delivery of an Officers Certificate demonstrating that the Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio did not exceed 3.50 to 1.00, the additional 0.25% per annum interest shall cease to accrue or be payable for any fiscal quarter subsequent to the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Officers Certificate is delivered (subject to the occurrence of another Transition Period to which the first sentence of this Section 1.2(b) would apply).
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company will issue and sell to each Purchaser and each Purchaser will purchase from the Company, at the Closing provided for in Section 3, the Notes in the principal amount specified opposite such Purchasers name in Schedule A at the purchase price of 100% of the principal amount thereof. The obligations of each Purchaser hereunder are several and not joint obligations and each Purchaser shall have no obligation and no liability to any Person for the performance or nonperformance by any other Purchaser hereunder.
The sale and purchase of the Notes to be purchased by each Purchaser shall occur at the offices of Bingham McCutchen LLP, One State Street, Hartford, Connecticut 06103 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, at a closing (the ) on February 19, 2010 or such earlier date as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Purchasers. On the Closing Date, the Company will deliver to each Purchaser the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser in the form of a single Note (or such greater number of Notes in denominations of at least $100,000 as such Purchaser may request) dated the date of the Closing Date and registered in such Purchasers name (or in the name of such Purchasers nominee), against delivery by such Purchaser to the Company or its order of immediately available funds in the amount of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company to Account Number 324-019-637, at Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York, ABA Number 021000021, in the Account Name of Dentsply International Inc. If, on the Closing Date, the Company shall fail to tender such Notes to any Purchaser as provided above in this Section 3, or any of the conditions specified in Section 4 shall not have been fulfilled to any Purchasers satisfaction, such Purchaser shall, at such Purchasers election, be relieved of all further obligations under this Agreement, without thereby waiving any rights such Purchaser may have by reason of such failure or such nonfulfillment.
Closing
Each Purchasers obligation to purchase and pay for the Notes to be sold to such Purchaser at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment to such Purchasers satisfaction, prior to or at the Closing, of the following conditions applicable to the Closing Date:
The representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
The Company shall have performed and complied with all agreements and conditions contained in this Agreement required to be performed or complied with by the Company prior to or at the Closing, and after giving effect to the issue and sale of the Notes (and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated by Section 5.14), no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall have entered into any transaction since June 30, 2009 that would have been prohibited by Section 10 hereof had such Sections applied since such date.
The Company shall have delivered to such Purchaser an Officers Certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying that the conditions specified in Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.9 have been fulfilled.
(a)     
Officers Certificate of the Company.
Such Purchaser shall have received opinions in form and substance satisfactory to such Purchaser, dated the Closing Date (a) from Brian Addison, Esq., General Counsel of the Company, covering the matters set forth in Exhibit 4.4(a) and covering such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated hereby as such Purchaser or its counsel may reasonably request (and the Company hereby instructs its counsel to deliver such opinion to the Purchasers) and (b) from Bingham McCutchen LLP, the Purchasers special counsel in connection with such transactions, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit 4.4(b) and covering such other matters incident to such transactions as such Purchaser may reasonably request.
On the date of the Closing, such Purchasers purchase of Notes shall (a) be permitted by the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction to which such Purchaser is subject, without recourse to provisions (such as section 1405(a)(8) of the New York Insurance Law) permitting limited investments by insurance companies without restriction as to the character of the particular investment, (b) not violate any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) and (c) not subject such Purchaser to any tax, penalty or liability under or pursuant to any applicable law or regulation, which law or regulation was not in effect on the date hereof. If requested by such Purchaser, such Purchaser shall have received an Officers Certificate certifying as to such matters of fact as such Purchaser may reasonably specify to enable such Purchaser to determine whether such purchase is so permitted.
Contemporaneously with the Closing the Company shall sell to each other Purchaser and each other Purchaser shall purchase the Notes to be purchased by it at the Closing as specified in Schedule A.
Without limiting the provisions of Section 15.1, the Company shall have paid on or before the Closing Date, the reasonable fees, reasonable charges and reasonable disbursements of the Purchasers special counsel referred to in Section 4.4 to the extent reflected in a statement of such counsel rendered to the Company at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
A Private Placement Number issued by Standard & Poors CUSIP Service Bureau (in cooperation with the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) shall have been obtained for the Notes.
The Company shall not have changed its jurisdiction of organization, been a party to any merger or consolidation, or shall not have succeeded to all or any substantial part of the liabilities of any other entity, at any time following the date of the most recent financial statements referred to in Section 5.5.
At least three Business Days prior to the date of the Closing, each Purchaser shall have received written instructions signed by a Responsible Officer on letterhead of the Company confirming the information specified in Section 3 including (i) the name and address of the transferee bank, (ii) such transferee banks ABA number and (iii) the account name and number into which the purchase price for the Notes is to be deposited.
All corporate and other organizational proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all documents and instruments incident to such transactions shall be reasonably satisfactory to such Purchaser and its special counsel, and such Purchaser and its special counsel shall have received all such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as such Purchaser or such special counsel may reasonably request.
The Company represents and warrants to each Purchaser that:
The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has the corporate power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Notes and to perform the provisions hereof and thereof.
This Agreement and the Notes to be issued on the Closing Date have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and this Agreement constitutes, and upon execution and delivery thereof each such Note will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
The documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ), including documents incorporated therein by reference, fairly describe, in all material respects, the general nature of the business and principal properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. This Agreement, the Public Filings, the documents, certificates or other writings delivered to the Purchasers by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the financial statements referred to in Section 5.5, in each case, delivered (or deemed to be delivered by reference to the Public Filings) to the Purchasers prior to August 21, 2009 (this Agreement, the Public Filings and such documents, certificates or other writings and such financial statements being referred to, collectively, as the ), taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Documents, since June 30, 2009, there has been no change in the financial condition, operations, business or properties of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries except changes that individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no fact known to the Company that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that has not been set forth herein or in the Disclosure Documents.
Public Filings
Disclosure Documents
(a)     
Schedule 5.4 contains (except as noted therein) complete and correct lists (i) of the Companys Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries, showing, as to each Subsidiary, the correct name thereof, the jurisdiction of its organization, and the percentage of shares of each class of its capital stock or similar equity interests outstanding owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) of the Companys Affiliates, other than Subsidiaries, and (iii) of the Companys directors and senior officers.
The Company has delivered to each Purchaser copies of the (quarterly and annual or, in the case of 2009, quarterly only) financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries contained in the Public Filings for the years 2004 through 2009, inclusive. All of said financial statements (including in each case the related schedules and notes) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the respective dates specified in such Public Filings and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the respective periods so specified and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods involved except as set forth in the notes thereto (subject, in the case of any interim financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments). The Company and its Subsidiaries do not have any Material liabilities that are not disclosed on such financial statements or otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Documents.
The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Notes will not (a) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of the Company or any Subsidiary under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, corporate charter or by-laws, or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is bound or by which the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (b) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary, or (c) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary.
No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Company of this Agreement or the Notes.
(a)     
There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or any property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in any court or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all tax returns that are required to have been filed in any jurisdiction, and have paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments levied upon them or their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent, except for any taxes and assessments (a) the amount of which is not individually or in the aggregate Material or (b) the amount, applicability or validity of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, has established adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP. The Company knows of no basis for any other tax or assessment that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of federal, state or other taxes for all fiscal periods are adequate. The federal income tax liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries have been finally determined (whether by reason of completed audits or the statute of limitations having run) for all fiscal years up to and including the fiscal year ended 2005.
The Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries have good and sufficient title to their respective properties which the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries own or purport to own, including all such properties reflected as owned in the most recent audited balance sheet referred to in Section 5.5 or purported to have been acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after said date (except as sold or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business), in each case free and clear of Liens prohibited by this Agreement, except where the failure to have such title would not have a Material Adverse Effect. All Material leases are valid and subsisting and are in full force and effect in all material respects.
(a)     
the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries own or possess all licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, proprietary software, service marks, trademarks and trade names, or rights thereto, without known conflict with the rights of others, except to the extent that the failure to own or possess the same, or the existence of any such conflict, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
(a)     
The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have operated and administered each Plan in compliance with all applicable laws except for such instances of noncompliance as have not resulted in and would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans (as defined in section 3 of ERISA), and no event, transaction or condition has occurred or exists that would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence of any such liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, in either case pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or to such penalty or excise tax provisions or to section 401(a)(29) or 412 of the Code or section 4068 of ERISA, other than such liabilities or Liens as would not be individually or in the aggregate Material.
The present value of the aggregate benefit liabilities under each of the Plans (other than Multiemployer Plans) and all foreign employee benefit plans, determined as of the end of such Plans (and such foreign employee benefit plans) most recently ended plan year on the basis of the actuarial assumptions specified for funding purposes in such Plans most recent actuarial valuation report, did not exceed the aggregate current value of the assets of such Plans (and such foreign employee benefit plans) allocable to such benefit liabilities by more than $107,799,000 in the aggregate for all Plans and all foreign employee benefit plans. The term has the meaning specified in section 4001 of ERISA and the terms and have the meaning specified in section 3 of ERISA.
(b)     
benefit liabilities
current value
present value
The Company and its ERISA Affiliates have not incurred any withdrawal liabilities (and are not subject to contingent withdrawal liabilities) under section 4201 or 4204 of ERISA in respect of Multiemployer Plans that individually or in the aggregate are Material.
(c)     
Neither the Company nor anyone acting on the Companys behalf has offered the Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any Person other than the Purchasers and not more than three (3) other Institutional Investors, each of which has been offered the Notes in connection with a private sale for investment. Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act or to the registration requirements of any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
The Company will apply the proceeds of the sale of the Notes for general corporate purposes of the Company. No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 221), or for the purpose of buying or carrying or trading in any securities under such circumstances as to involve the Company in a violation of Regulation X of said Board (12 CFR 224) or to involve any broker or dealer in a violation of Regulation T of said Board (12 CFR 220). Margin stock does not constitute more than 5% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the Company does not have any present intention that margin stock will constitute more than 5% of the value of such assets. As used in this Section, the terms and shall have the meanings assigned to them in said Regulation U.
margin stock
purpose of buying or carrying
(a)     
Except as described therein, Schedule 5.15 sets forth a complete and correct list of all outstanding Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2009, since which date there has been no Material change in the amounts, interest rates, sinking funds, installment payments or maturities of the Debt of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is in default and no waiver of default is currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any Debt of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, and no event or condition exists with respect to any Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would permit) one or more Persons to cause such Debt to become due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment.
(a)     
(a) Neither the sale of the Notes by the Company hereunder nor its use of the proceeds thereof will violate the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto.
Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or is subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, as amended, the ICC Termination Act of 1995, as amended, or the Federal Power Act, as amended.
(a)     
Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary has knowledge of any liability or has received any notice of any liability, and no proceeding has been instituted raising any liability against the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any of their respective real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them, or other assets, alleging any damage to the environment or violation of any Environmental Laws, except, in each case, such as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
The obligations of the Company under this Agreement and the Notes rank in right of payment with all other senior unsecured Debt (actual or contingent) of the Company, including, without limitation, all senior unsecured Debt of the Company described in Schedule 5.15 hereto.
pari passu
Each Purchaser severally represents that it is purchasing the Notes for its own account or for one or more separate accounts maintained by it or for the account of one or more pension or trust funds and not with a view to the distribution thereof, that the disposition of such Purchasers or such pension or trust funds property shall at all times be within such Purchasers or such pension or trust funds control. Each Purchaser understands that the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may be resold only if registered pursuant to the provisions of the Securities Act or if an exemption from registration is available, except under circumstances where neither such registration nor such an exemption is required by law, and that the Company is not required to and the Company has no intent to register the Notes.
provided
Each Purchaser represents that it is an accredited investor (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act acting for its own account (and not for the account of others) or as a fiduciary or agent for others (which others are also accredited investors). Each Purchaser further represents that such Purchaser has had the opportunity to ask questions of the Company and received answers to its satisfaction concerning the terms and conditions of the sale of the Notes.
Each Purchaser severally represents that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to each source of funds (a ) to be used by such Purchaser to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser hereunder:
Source
) 95-60) in respect of which the reserves and liabilities (as defined by the annual statement for life insurance companies approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the )) for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any employee benefit plan together with the amount of the reserves and liabilities for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any other employee benefit plans maintained by the same employer (or affiliate thereof as defined in PTE 95-60) or by the same employee organization in the general account do not exceed 10% of the total reserves and liabilities of the general account (exclusive of separate account liabilities) plus surplus as set forth in the NAIC Annual Statement filed with such Purchasers state of domicile; or
(a)     
the Source is an insurance company general account (as the term is defined in the United States Department of Labors Prohibited Transaction Exemption (
PTE
NAIC Annual Statement
As used in this Section 6.3, the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in section 3 of ERISA.
employee benefit plan,
governmental plan,
separate account
The Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
 within 60 days after the end of each quarterly fiscal period in each fiscal year of the Company (other than the last quarterly fiscal period of each such fiscal year),
(a)     
Quarterly Statements
(i)     
a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and
consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such quarter and (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarter,
(ii)     
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding periods in the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP applicable to quarterly financial statements generally, and certified by a Senior Financial Officer as fairly presenting, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported on and their results of operations and cash flows, subject to changes resulting from year-end adjustments, that filing (and providing each holder of Notes written notice of such filing) with the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time period specified above the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q prepared in compliance with the requirements therefor shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(a);
provided
 within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company,
(b)     
Annual Statements
(i)     
a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as at the end of such year, and
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP, and accompanied by an opinion thereon of independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported upon and their results of operations and cash flows and have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, and that the examination of such accountants in connection with such financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and that such audit provides a reasonable basis for such opinion in the circumstances, that filing (and providing each holder of Notes written notice of such filing) with the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time period specified above of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year (together with the Companys annual report to shareholders, if any, prepared pursuant to Rule 14a-3 under the Exchange Act) prepared in accordance with the requirements therefor shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(b);
provided
 In the event that one or more Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall either (i) own more than 10% of the total consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or (ii) account for more than 10% of the consolidated gross revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries, determined in each case in accordance with GAAP, then, within the respective periods provided in Section 7.1(a) and (b) above, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor, unaudited financial statements of the character and for the dates and periods as in said Sections 7.1(a) and (b) covering such group of Unrestricted Subsidiaries (on a consolidated basis), together with a consolidating statement reflecting eliminations or adjustments required to reconcile the financial statements of such group of Unrestricted Subsidiaries to the financial statements delivered pursuant to Sections 7.1(a) and (b);
(c)     
Unrestricted Subsidiaries
(i)     
with respect to any Plan, any reportable event, as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA and the regulations thereunder, for which notice thereof has not been waived pursuant to such regulations as in effect on the date thereof; or
 promptly, and in any event within 30 days of receipt thereof, copies of any notice to the Company or any Subsidiary from any federal or state Governmental Authority relating to any order, ruling, statute or other law or regulation that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(g)     
Notices from Governmental Authority
At the time each set of financial statements is required to be delivered (or deemed to have been delivered) to a holder of Notes pursuant to Section 7.1(a) or Section 7.1(b) hereof the Company shall deliver to each holder a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer setting forth:
 the information required in order to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of Section 10.1 through Section 10.6 and Section 10.9 hereof, inclusive, during the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished (including with respect to each such Section, where applicable, the calculations of the maximum or minimum amount, ratio or percentage, as the case may be, permissible under the terms of such Sections, and the calculation of the amount, ratio or percentage then in existence); and
(a)     
Covenant Compliance
The Company shall permit the representatives of each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
 if no Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of such holder and upon reasonable prior notice to the Company, to visit the principal executive office of the Company, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Subsidiaries with the Companys officers, and (with the consent of the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) its independent public accountants, and (with the consent of the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to visit the other offices and properties of the Company and each Restricted Subsidiary, all at such reasonable times and as often as may be reasonably requested in writing; and
(a)     
No Default
For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood that Section 20 applies to Confidential Information obtained in connection with the exercise by any holder of Notes of the rights set forth in this Section 7.3.
On the following dates, the Company shall prepay the following principal amounts (or such lesser principal amounts as shall then be outstanding) of the Notes at par and without payment of the Make-Whole Amount or any premium, provided that upon any partial prepayment of the Notes pursuant to Section 8.2, the principal amount of each required prepayment of the Notes becoming due under this Section 8.1 on and after the date of such prepayment shall be reduced in the same proportion as the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Notes is reduced as a result of such prepayment:
The entire remaining unpaid principal amount of the Notes shall become due and payable on the sixth anniversary of the Closing Date.
The Company may, at its option, upon notice as provided below, prepay at any time all, or from time to time any part of, the Notes, in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid in the case of a partial prepayment, at 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, together with interest accrued thereon to the date of such prepayment, plus the Make-Whole Amount determined for the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount. The Company will give each holder of Notes written notice of each optional prepayment under this Section 8.2 not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such prepayment. Each such notice shall specify such date, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid on such date, the principal amount of each Note held by such holder to be prepaid (determined in accordance with Section 8.4), and the interest to be paid on the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount being prepaid, and shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer as to the estimated Make-Whole Amount due in connection with such prepayment (calculated as if the date of such notice were the date of the prepayment), setting forth the details of such computation. Two Business Days prior to such prepayment, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes to be prepaid a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer specifying the calculation of such Make-Whole Amount as of the specified prepayment date.
. The Company will, within 5 Business Days after any Senior Financial Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of any Change of Control, give written notice of such Change of Control to each holder of Notes unless notice in respect of such Change of Control shall have been given pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this Section 8.3. If a Change of Control has occurred, such notice shall contain and constitute an offer to prepay Notes as described in subparagraph (c) of this Section 8.3 and shall be accompanied by the certificate described in subparagraph (g) of this Section 8.3.
(a)     
Notice of Change of Control
The Company may prepay the Notes in accordance with Section 10.4.
In the case of each partial prepayment of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.2, the principal amount of the Notes shall be allocated among all of the Notes at the time outstanding in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective unpaid principal amounts thereof.
In the case of each prepayment of Notes pursuant to this Section 8, the principal amount of each Note to be prepaid shall mature and become due and payable on the date fixed for such prepayment (which shall be a Business Day), together with interest on such principal amount accrued to such date and the applicable Make-Whole Amount, if any. From and after such date, unless the Company shall fail to pay such principal amount when so due and payable, together with the interest and Make-Whole Amount, if any, as aforesaid, interest on such principal amount shall cease to accrue. Any Note paid or prepaid in full shall be surrendered to the Company and cancelled and shall not be reissued, and no Note shall be issued in lieu of any prepaid principal amount of any Note.
The Company will not and will not permit any Affiliate to purchase, redeem, prepay or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the outstanding Notes except (a) upon the payment or prepayment of the Notes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes or (b) pursuant to a written offer to purchase any outstanding Notes made by the Company or an Affiliate pro rata to the holders of the Notes upon the same terms and conditions. The Company will promptly cancel all Notes acquired by it or any Affiliate pursuant to any payment, prepayment or purchase of Notes pursuant to any provision of this Agreement and no Notes may be issued in substitution or exchange for any such Notes.
means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Discounted Value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to the Called Principal of such Note over the amount of such Called Principal, provided that the Make-Whole Amount may in no event be less than zero. For the purposes of determining the Make-Whole Amount, the following terms have the following meanings:
Make-Whole Amount
means, with respect to any Note, the principal of such Note that is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2 or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
Called Principal
means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, the amount obtained by discounting all Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to such Called Principal from their respective scheduled due dates to the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in accordance with accepted financial practice and at a discount factor (applied on the same periodic basis as that on which interest on the Notes is payable) equal to the Reinvestment Yield with respect to such Called Principal.
Discounted Value
means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, .50% over the yield to maturity implied by (i) the yields reported as of 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, on the display designated as Page PX1 (or such other display as may replace Page PX1) on Bloomberg Financial Markets for the most recently issued actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury securities having a maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date, or (ii) if such yields are not reported as of such time or the yields reported as of such time are not ascertainable (including by way of interpolation), the Treasury Constant Maturity Series Yields reported, for the latest day for which such yields have been so reported as of the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) for actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury securities having a constant maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date.
Reinvestment Yield
In the case of each determination under clause (i) or clause (ii), as the case may be, of the preceding paragraph, such implied yield will be determined, if necessary, by (a) converting U.S. Treasury bill quotations to bond equivalent yields in accordance with accepted financial practice and (b) interpolating linearly between (1) the applicable actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and greater than such Remaining Average Life and (2) the applicable actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and less than such Remaining Average Life. The Reinvestment Yield shall be rounded to the number of decimal places as appears in the interest rate of the applicable Note.
means, with respect to any Called Principal, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) obtained by dividing (i) such Called Principal into (ii) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the principal component of each Remaining Scheduled Payment with respect to such Called Principal by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) that will elapse between the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal and the scheduled due date of such Remaining Scheduled Payment.
Remaining Average Life
means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, all payments of such Called Principal and interest thereon that would be due after the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal if no payment of such Called Principal were made prior to its scheduled due date, provided that if such Settlement Date is not a date on which interest payments are due to be made under the terms of the Notes, then the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued to such Settlement Date and required to be paid on such Settlement Date pursuant to Section 8.2 or Section 12.1.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, the date on which such Called Principal is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2 or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
Settlement Date
The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
Without limiting Section 10.7, the Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations to which each of them is subject, including, without limitation, ERISA, the USA Patriot Act and Environmental Laws, and will obtain and maintain in effect all licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of their respective properties or to the conduct of their respective businesses, in each case to the extent necessary to ensure that non-compliance with such laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations or failures to obtain or maintain in effect such licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurers, insurance with respect to their respective properties and businesses against such casualties and contingencies, of such types, on such terms and in such amounts (including deductibles, co-insurance and self-insurance, if adequate reserves are maintained with respect thereto) as is customary in the case of entities of established reputations engaged in the same or a similar business and similarly situated except for any non-maintenance that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain and keep, or cause to be maintained and kept, their respective properties in good repair, working order and condition (other than ordinary wear and tear), so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be conducted in the ordinary course at all times, that this Section shall not prevent the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation and the maintenance of or disposing of any of its properties if such discontinuance or disposal is desirable in the conduct of its business and the Company has concluded that such discontinuance or disposal would not, individually or in the aggregate, (i) reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) would not violate the limitations set forth in Sections 10.4 and 10.5 hereof.
provided
The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, file all tax returns required to be filed in any jurisdiction and to pay and discharge all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes, assessments, governmental charges, or levies imposed on them or any of their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent and all claims for which sums have become due and payable that have or might become a Lien on properties or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary not permitted by Section 10.3, that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary need pay any such tax or assessment or claims if (i) the amount, applicability or validity thereof is contested by the Company or such Subsidiary on a timely basis in good faith and in appropriate proceedings, and the Company or a Subsidiary has established adequate reserves therefor in accordance with GAAP on the books of the Company or such Subsidiary or (ii) the non-filing or nonpayment, as the case may be, of any such taxes and assessments in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
provided
Subject to Sections 10.4 and 10.5, the Company will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, and will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence of each of its Restricted Subsidiaries (unless merged into the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary) and all rights and franchises of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries unless, in the good faith judgment of the Company, the termination of or failure to preserve and keep in full force and effect such corporate existence, right or franchise would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Company may from time to time cause any Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary Guarantor) to be designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary or any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be designated a Restricted Subsidiary; that at the time of such designation and immediately after giving effect thereto, (a) no Default or Event of Default would exist under the terms of this Agreement, and (b) the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries would be in compliance with all of the covenants set forth in this Section 9 and Section 10 if tested on the date of such action and that once a Subsidiary has been designated an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall not thereafter be redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary on more than one occasion and once a Subsidiary has been designated a Restricted Subsidiary, it shall not thereafter be redesignated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary on more than one occasion, except with the prior written consent of the holders of Notes, not to be unreasonable withheld. Within ten (10) days following any designation described above, the Company will deliver to you a notice of such designation accompanied by a certificate signed by a Senior Financial Officer of the Company certifying compliance with all requirements of this Section 9.6 and setting forth all information required in order to establish such compliance.
provided, however,
provided, further,
The Notes and all other obligations under this Agreement of the Company are and at all times shall remain direct and unsecured obligations of the Company ranking as against the assets of the Company with all other Notes from time to time issued and outstanding hereunder without any preference among themselves and with all Debt outstanding under the Bank Credit Agreement and all other present and future unsecured Debt (actual or contingent) of the Company which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured Debt of the Company.
pari passu
pari passu
The Company will cause any Subsidiary which is required by the terms of the Bank Credit Agreement to become obligated for, or otherwise guarantee, Debt of the Company in respect of the Bank Credit Agreement, to deliver to each of the holders of the Notes (concurrently with the incurrence of any such obligation) the following items:
(a)     
a duly executed Subsidiary Guaranty in scope, form and substance satisfactory to the Required Holders;
The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain proper books of record and account in conformity with GAAP (or with respect to any Restricted Subsidiary organized and operating in a jurisdiction other than the United States of America, in conformity to such jurisdictions generally accepted accounting principles) and all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having legal or regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be.
The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
The Company will not at any time permit the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (Consolidated EBITDA to be calculated as at the end of each fiscal quarter for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended) to exceed 3.50 to 1.00; that the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA may exceed 3.5 to 1.00 at any time during a Transition Period if such ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA exceeded 3.5 to 1.00 as a direct result of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary creating, assuming, incurring, guaranteeing or otherwise becoming liable in respect of Acquisition Debt so long as the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated EBITDA at all times during any Transition Period shall not exceed 4.0 to 1.00.
provided, however,
The Company will not at any time permit the aggregate amount of all Priority Debt to exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Worth (Consolidated Net Worth to be determined as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company).
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or permit to exist (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any Lien on or with respect to any property or asset (including, without limitation, any document or instrument in respect of goods or accounts receivable) of the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary, whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired, or any income or profits therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income or profits (unless it makes, or causes to be made, effective provision whereby the Notes will be equally and ratably secured with any and all other obligations thereby secured, such security to be pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders and, in any such case, the Notes shall have the benefit, to the fullest extent that, and with such priority as, the holders of the Notes may be entitled under applicable law, of an equitable Lien on such property), except:
(a)     
Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that are not yet due and payable or the payment of which is not at the time required by Section 9.4;
The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any substantial part (as defined below) of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries; that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets constituting a substantial part of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries if assets are sold in an arms length transaction and, at such time and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and an amount equal to the net proceeds received from such sale, lease or other disposition (but only with respect to that portion of such assets that exceeds the definition of substantial part set forth below) shall be used within 365 days of such sale, lease or disposition, in any combination:
provided, however,
such
(1)     
to acquire operating assets used or useful in carrying on the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries and having a value at least equal to the value of such assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of; and/or
As used in this Section 10.4, a sale, lease or other disposition of assets shall be deemed to be a of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries if the book value of such assets, when added to the book value of all other assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries during the period beginning on the first day of the 12 complete calendar month preceding the date of such sale, lease or other disposition and ending on such date, exceeds 10% of the book value of Consolidated Total Assets, determined as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such sale, lease or other disposition; that there shall be excluded from any determination of a substantial part any (i) sale or disposition of assets in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) any transfer of assets from the Company to any Restricted Subsidiary or from any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary and (iii) any sale or transfer of property acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Agreement to any Person within 365 days following the acquisition or construction of such property by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary shall concurrently with such sale or transfer, lease such property, as lessee.
substantial part
th
provided
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consolidate with or merge with any other Person or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to any Person; that:
provided
(1)     
any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company may (x) consolidate with or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to, (i) the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary so long as in any merger or consolidation involving the Company, the Company shall be the surviving or continuing corporation or (ii) any other Person so long as the survivor is the Restricted Subsidiary, or (y) convey, transfer or lease all of its assets in compliance with the provisions of Section 10.4; and
), shall be a solvent entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia;
(a)     
the successor formed by such consolidation or the survivor of such merger or the Person that acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease substantially all of the assets of the Company as an entirety, as the case may be (the
Successor Corporation
if the Company is not the Successor Corporation, such Successor Corporation shall have executed and delivered to each holder of Notes its assumption of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant and condition of this Agreement and the Notes (pursuant to such agreements and instruments as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders), and the Successor Corporation shall have caused to be delivered to each holder of Notes (A) an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and (B) an acknowledgment from each Subsidiary Guarantor that the Subsidiary Guaranty continues in full force and effect; and
(b)     
The Company will not and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to enter into directly or indirectly any Material transaction or Material group of related transactions (including without limitation the purchase, lease, sale or exchange of properties of any kind or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate (other than the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary), except in the ordinary course and upon fair and reasonable terms that are not materially less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, taken as a whole, than would be obtainable in a comparable arms-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
The Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to engage in any actions or inactions that will permit or cause the Company or any Subsidiary to (a) become a Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (b) knowingly engage in any dealings or transactions with any such Person.
The Company will not and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to engage in any business if, as a result, the general nature of the business in which the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, would then be engaged would be substantially changed from the general nature of the business in which the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, are engaged on the date of this Agreement.
The Company will not at any time permit Consolidated Total Assets to be less than 80% of the total amount of consolidated total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter.
An shall exist if any of the following conditions or events shall occur and be continuing:
Event of Default
(a)     
the Company defaults in the payment of any principal or Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise; or
As used in Section 11(k), the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
employee benefit plan
employee welfare benefit plan
(a)     
If an Event of Default with respect to the Company described in paragraph (h) or (i) of Section 11 (other than an Event of Default described in clause (i) of paragraph (h) or described in clause (vi) of paragraph (h) by virtue of the fact that such clause encompasses clause (i) of paragraph (h)) has occurred, all Notes then outstanding shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
Upon any Notes becoming due and payable under this Section 12.1, whether automatically or by declaration, such Note will forthwith mature and the entire unpaid principal amount of such Note, plus (i) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (including, but not limited to, interest accrued thereon at the Default Rate) and (ii) the Make-Whole Amount, if any, determined in respect of such principal amount (to the full extent permitted by applicable law), shall all be immediately due and payable, in each and every case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice, all of which are hereby waived. The Company acknowledges, and the parties hereto agree, that each holder of a Note has the right to maintain its investment in the Notes free from repayment by the Company (except as herein specifically provided for) and that the provision for payment of the Make-Whole Amount by the Company in the event that the Notes are prepaid or are accelerated as a result of an Event of Default, is intended to provide compensation for the deprivation of such right under such circumstances.
If any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and irrespective of whether any Notes have become or have been declared immediately due and payable under Section 12.1, the holder of any Note at the time outstanding may proceed to protect and enforce the rights of such holder by an action at law, suit in equity or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the specific performance of any agreement contained herein or in any Note, or for an injunction against a violation of any of the terms hereof or thereof, or in aid of the exercise of any power granted hereby or thereby or by law or otherwise.
At any time after the Notes have been declared due and payable pursuant to clause (b) or (c) of Section 12.1, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Company, may rescind and annul any such declaration and its consequences if (a) the Company has paid all overdue interest on the Notes, all principal of and Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Notes that are due and payable and are unpaid other than by reason of such declaration, and all interest on such overdue principal and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any overdue interest in respect of the Notes, at the Default Rate, (b) neither the Company nor any other Person shall have paid any amounts which have become due solely by reason of such declaration, (c) all Events of Default and Defaults, other than non-payment of amounts that have become due solely by reason of such declaration, have been cured or have been waived pursuant to Section 17, and (d) no judgment or decree has been entered for the payment of any monies due pursuant hereto or to any Notes. No rescission and annulment under this Section 12.3 will extend to or affect any subsequent Event of Default or Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
No course of dealing and no delay on the part of any holder of any Note in exercising any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof or otherwise prejudice such holders rights, powers or remedies. No right, power or remedy conferred by this Agreement or by any Note upon any holder thereof shall be exclusive of any other right, power or remedy referred to herein or therein or now or hereafter available at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise. Without limiting the obligations of the Company under Section 15, in the event the Company fails to pay upon demand as required under this Section 12, the Company will pay to the holder of each Note on demand such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all costs and expenses of such holder incurred in any enforcement or collection under this Section 12, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys fees, expenses and disbursements.
The Company shall keep at its principal executive office a register for the registration and registration of transfers of Notes. The name and address of each holder of one or more Notes, each transfer thereof and the name and address of each transferee of one or more Notes shall be registered in such register. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed and treated as the owner and holder thereof for all purposes hereof, and the Company shall not be affected by any notice or knowledge to the contrary. The Company shall give to any holder of a Note that is an Institutional Investor promptly upon request therefor, a complete and correct copy of the names and addresses of all registered holders of Notes.
Upon surrender of any Note to the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in Section 18(iii)), for registration of transfer or exchange (and in the case of a surrender for registration of transfer accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed by the registered holder of such Note or such holders attorney duly authorized in writing and accompanied by the relevant name, address and other information for notices of each transferee of such Note or part thereof), within ten Business Days thereafter, the Company shall execute and deliver, at the Companys expense (except as provided below), one or more new Notes (as requested by the holder thereof) in exchange therefor, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new Note shall be payable to such Person as such holder may request in accordance with this Agreement, and shall be substantially in the form of the Note originally issued hereunder. Each such new Note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or governmental charge imposed in respect of any such transfer of Notes. Notes shall not be transferred in denominations of less than $100,000, that if necessary to enable the registration of transfer by a holder of its entire holding of Notes, one Note may be in a denomination of less than $100,000. Any transferee, by its acceptance of a Note registered in its name (or the name of its nominee), shall be deemed to have made the representation set forth in Section 6.3, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA.
provided
provided
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or under the securities laws of any state and may not be transferred or resold unless registered under the Securities Act and all applicable state securities laws or unless an exemption from the requirement for such registration is available.
Upon receipt by the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in Section 18(iii)) of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the ownership of and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any Note (which evidence shall be, in the case of an Institutional Investor, notice from such Institutional Investor of such ownership and such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation), and
that if the holder of such Note is, or is a nominee for, an original Purchaser or another holder of a Note with a minimum net worth of at least $50,000,000 or a Qualified Institutional Buyer, such Persons own unsecured agreement of indemnity shall be deemed to be satisfactory), or
(a)     
in the case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it (
provided
the Company at its own expense shall execute and deliver not more than five Business Days following satisfaction of such conditions, in lieu thereof, a new Note, dated and bearing interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
Subject to Section 14.2, payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest becoming due and payable on the Notes shall be made in New York, New York at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in such jurisdiction. The Company may at any time, by notice to each holder of a Note, change the place of payment of the Notes so long as such place of payment shall be either the principal office of the Company in such jurisdiction or the principal office of a bank or trust company in such jurisdiction.
So long as any Purchaser or such Purchasers nominee shall be the holder of any Note, and notwithstanding anything contained in Section 14.1 or in such Note to the contrary, the Company will pay all sums becoming due on such Note for principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest by the method and at the address specified for such purpose for such Purchaser on Schedule A hereto, or by such other method or at such other address as such Purchaser shall have from time to time specified to the Company in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of such Note or the making of any notation thereon, except that upon written request of the Company made concurrently with or reasonably promptly after payment or prepayment in full of any Note, such Purchaser shall surrender such Note for cancellation, reasonably promptly after any such request, to the Company at its principal executive office or at the place of payment most recently designated by the Company pursuant to Section 14.1. Prior to any sale or other disposition of any Note held by any Purchaser or such Persons nominee, such Person will, at its election, either endorse thereon the amount of principal paid thereon and the last date to which interest has been paid thereon or surrender such Note to the Company in exchange for a new Note or Notes pursuant to Section 13.2. The Company will afford the benefits of this Section 14.2 to any Institutional Investor that is the direct or indirect transferee of any Note.
Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Company will pay all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees of a special counsel for the Purchasers and, if reasonably required by the Required Holders, local or other counsel) reasonably incurred by each Purchaser and each other holder of a Note in connection with such transactions and in connection with any amendments, waivers or consents under or in respect of this Agreement or the Notes (whether or not such amendment, waiver or consent becomes effective) for: (a) the costs and expenses incurred in enforcing or defending (or determining whether or how to enforce or defend) any rights under this Agreement or the Notes or in responding to any subpoena or other legal process or informal investigative demand issued in connection with this Agreement or the Notes, or by reason of being a holder of any Note, and (b) the costs and expenses, including financial advisors fees, incurred in connection with the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or any Subsidiary or in connection with any work-out or restructuring of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Notes. The Company will pay, and will save each Purchaser and each other holder of a Note harmless from, all claims in respect of any fees, costs or expenses if any, of brokers and finders (other than those, if any, retained by a Purchaser or other holder in connection with its purchase of the Notes).
The obligations of the Company under this Section 15 will survive the payment or transfer of any Note, the enforcement, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, and the termination of this Agreement.
All representations and warranties contained herein or in any certificate or other instrument delivered by or on behalf of the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Notes, the purchase or transfer by any Purchaser of any such Note or portion thereof or interest therein and the payment of any Note and may be relied upon by any subsequent holder of any such Note, regardless of any investigation made at any time by or on behalf of any Purchaser or any other holder of any such Note. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement and the Notes embody the entire agreement and understanding between the Purchasers and the Company and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.
This Agreement and the Notes may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof or of the Notes may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), with (and only with) the written consent of the Company and the Required Holders, except that (a) no amendment or waiver of any of the provisions of Section 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 21 hereof, or any defined term, will be effective as to any holder of Notes unless consented to by such holder of Notes in writing, and (b) no such amendment or waiver may, without the written consent of all of the holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected thereby, (A) subject to the provisions of Section 12 relating to acceleration or rescission, change the amount or time of any prepayment or payment of principal of, or reduce the rate or change the time of payment or method of computation of interest (if such change results in a decrease in the interest rate) or of the Make-Whole Amount, if any, on the Notes, (B) change the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes the holders of which are required to consent to any such amendment or waiver, or (C) amend any of Sections 8, 11(a), 11(b), 12, 17 or 20.
The Company will provide each holder of the Notes (irrespective of the amount of Notes then owned by it) with such information as requested, in advance of the date a decision is required, to enable such holder to make an informed and considered decision with respect to any proposed amendment, waiver or consent in respect of any of the provisions hereof or of the Notes. The Company will deliver executed or true and correct copies of each amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to the provisions of this Section 17 to each holder of outstanding Notes promptly following the date on which it is executed and delivered by, or receives the consent or approval of, the requisite holders of Notes.
(a)     
Solicitation.
The Company will not directly or indirectly pay or cause to be paid any remuneration, whether by way of supplemental or additional interest, fee or otherwise, or grant any security or provide other credit support, to any holder of Notes as consideration for or as an inducement to the entering into by any holder of Notes of any waiver or amendment of any of the terms and provisions hereof unless such remuneration is concurrently paid, or security is concurrently granted or other credit support is concurrently provided, on the same terms, ratably to each holder of Notes then outstanding even if such holder did not consent to such waiver or amendment.
(b)     
Payment.
Any amendment or waiver consented to as provided in this Section 17 applies equally to all holders of Notes and is binding upon them and upon each future holder of any Note and upon the Company without regard to whether such Note has been marked to indicate such amendment or waiver. No such amendment or waiver will extend to or affect any obligation, covenant, agreement, Default or Event of Default not expressly amended or waived or impair any right consequent thereon. No course of dealing between the Company and the holder of any Note nor any delay in exercising any rights hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights of any holder of such Note. As used herein, the term this Agreement and references thereto shall mean this Agreement as it may from time to time be amended or supplemented.
Solely for the purpose of determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding approved or consented to any amendment, waiver or consent to be given under this Agreement or the Notes, or have directed the taking of any action provided herein or in the Notes to be taken upon the direction of the holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding, Notes directly or indirectly owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed not to be outstanding.
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by telecopy if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid). Any such notice must be sent:
(i)     
if to a Purchaser or such Purchasers nominee, to such Purchaser or such Purchasers nominee at the address specified for such communications in Schedule A to this Agreement, or at such other address as such Purchaser or such Purchasers nominee shall have specified to the Company in writing pursuant to this Section 18;
Notices under this Section 18 will be deemed given only when actually received.
This Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (b) documents received by any Purchaser at the Closing (except the Notes themselves), and (c) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter furnished to any Purchaser, may be reproduced by such Purchaser by any photographic, photostatic, electronic, digital, or other similar process and such Purchaser may destroy any original document so reproduced. The Company agrees and stipulates that, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by such Purchaser in the regular course of business) and any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence. This Section 19 shall not prohibit the Company or any other holder of Notes from contesting any such reproduction to the same extent that it could contest the original, or from challenging the accuracy of any such reproduction.
For the purposes of this Section 20,  means information delivered to any Purchaser by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in connection with the transactions contemplated by or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement that is proprietary in nature and that was clearly marked or labeled or otherwise adequately identified when received by such Purchaser as being confidential information of the Company or such Subsidiary, that such term does not include information that (a) was publicly known or otherwise known to such Purchaser prior to the time of such disclosure, (b) subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or omission by such Purchaser or any Person acting on such Purchasers behalf, (c) otherwise becomes known to such Purchaser other than through disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary or (d) constitutes financial statements delivered to such Purchaser under Section 7.1 that are otherwise publicly available. Each Purchaser will maintain the confidentiality of such Confidential Information in accordance with procedures adopted by such Purchaser in good faith to protect confidential information of third parties delivered to such Purchaser, that such Purchaser may deliver or disclose Confidential Information to (i) such Purchasers directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents, attorneys and affiliates (to the extent such disclosure reasonably relates to the administration of the investment represented by such Purchasers Notes), (ii) such Purchasers financial advisors and other professional advisors who agree to hold confidential the Confidential Information substantially in accordance with the terms of this Section 20, (iii) any other holder of any Note, (iv) any Institutional Investor to which such Purchaser sells or offers to sell such Note or any part thereof or any participation therein (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (v) any Person from which such Purchaser offers to purchase any security of the Company (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (vi) any federal or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such Purchaser, (vii) the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization, or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about such Purchasers investment portfolio, or (viii) any other Person to which such delivery or disclosure may be necessary or appropriate (w) to effect compliance with any law, rule, regulation or order applicable to such Purchaser, (x) in response to any subpoena or other legal process, (y) in connection with any litigation to which such Purchaser is a party in connection with the transaction described herein or (z) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, to the extent such Purchaser may reasonably determine such delivery and disclosure to be necessary or appropriate in the enforcement or for the protection of the rights and remedies under such Purchasers Notes, the Subsidiary Guaranty and this Agreement. Each holder of a Note, by its acceptance of a Note, will be deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to be entitled to the benefits of this Section 20 as though it were a party to this Agreement. On reasonable request by the Company in connection with the delivery to any holder of a Note of information required to be delivered to such holder under this Agreement or requested by such holder (other than a holder that is a party to this Agreement or its nominee), such holder will enter into an agreement with the Company embodying the provisions of this Section 20.
Confidential Information
provided
provided
Each Purchaser shall have the right to substitute any one of its Subsidiaries as the purchaser of the Notes that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, by written notice to the Company, which notice shall be signed by both such Purchaser and such Subsidiary, shall contain such Subsidiarys agreement to be bound by this Agreement and shall contain a confirmation by such Subsidiary of the accuracy with respect to it of the representations set forth in Section 6. Upon receipt of such notice, any reference to such Purchaser in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), shall be deemed to refer to such Subsidiary in lieu of such original Purchaser. In the event that such Subsidiary is so substituted as a Purchaser hereunder and such Subsidiary thereafter transfers to such original Purchaser all of the Notes then held by such Subsidiary, upon receipt by the Company of notice of such transfer, any reference to such Subsidiary as a Purchaser in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), shall no longer be deemed to refer to such Subsidiary, but shall refer to such original Purchaser and such original Purchaser shall again have all the rights of an original holder of the Notes under this Agreement.
All covenants and other agreements contained in this Agreement by or on behalf of any of the parties hereto bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any subsequent holder of a Note) whether so expressed or not.
Anything in this Agreement or the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding (but without limiting the requirement in Section 8.6 that the notice of any optional prepayment specify a Business Day as the date fixed for such prepayment), any payment of principal of or Make-Whole Amount or interest on any Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day; provided that if the date of payment of any principal of any Note is a date other than a Business Day, the payment otherwise due on such date shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
All accounting terms used herein which are not expressly defined in this Agreement have the meanings respectively given to them in accordance with GAAP. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, (i) all computations made pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) all financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement, for purposes of determining compliance with the financial covenants contained in this Agreement, any election by the Company to measure an item of Debt (including Consolidated Debt) using fair value (as permitted by FASB 159 or any similar accounting standard) shall be disregarded and such determination shall be made as if such election had not been made.
Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Each covenant contained herein shall be construed (absent express provision to the contrary) as being independent of each other covenant contained herein, so that compliance with any one covenant shall not (absent such an express contrary provision) be deemed to excuse compliance with any other covenant. Where any provision herein refers to action to be taken by any Person, or which such Person is prohibited from taking, such provision shall be applicable whether such action is taken directly or indirectly by such Person.
For the avoidance of doubt, all Schedules and Exhibits attached to this Agreement shall be deemed to be a part hereof.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.
This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the law of the State of New York excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would permit the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
(a)     
The Company irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State or federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
The execution hereof by the Purchasers shall constitute a contract among the Company and the Purchasers for the uses and purposes hereinabove set forth. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each executed counterpart constituting an original but all together only one agreement.
 
Very truly yours,
Dentsply International Inc.
By:
                                   
Name:
Title:
Accepted as of the date first written above.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
By:
                                   
Name:
Title:    
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITY
CORPORATION
By:     New York Life Investment Management LLC,
     Its Investment Manager    
     By:
                              
     Name:
     Title:    
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE AND ANNUITY
CORPORATION Institutionally Owned
Life
Insurance Separate Account (BOLI 30C)
By:     New York Life Investment Management LLC,
     Its Investment Manager    
     By:
                              
     Name:
     Title:    
 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
        by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, its Investment Manager         by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, its Investment Manager  
METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT
METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY
By:
                                   
Name:
Title:
(executed by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (i) as to itself
as a Purchaser and (ii) as investment manager to MetLife Insurance Company
of Connecticut as a Purchaser and MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company as a
Purchaser)
HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HARTFORD ACCIDENT AND INDEMNITY COMPANY
By:     Hartford Investment Management Company
     Their Agent and Attorney-in-Fact
     By:
                              
     Name:
     Title:
 
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
1
PPN to be inserted before Closing
2
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
3
PPN to be inserted before Closing
4
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
5
PPN to be inserted before Closing
6
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
7
PPN to be inserted before Closing
8
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
9
PPN to be inserted before Closing
10
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
11
PPN to be inserted before Closing
12
 
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
13
PPN to be inserted before Closing
14
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
15
PPN to be inserted before Closing
16
  Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
17
PPN to be inserted before Closing
18
Maturity date to be inserted before Closing
19
PPN to be inserted before Closing
20
As used herein, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below or set forth in the Section hereof following such term:
means any Debt incurred in connection with the acquisition by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Person or line of business, , that, at such time and after giving effect to such acquisition, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries are in compliance with Section 10.8.
Acquisition Debt
provided
means Citibank, N.A. in its capacity as agent under the Bank Credit Agreement, together with its successors and assigns in such capacity.
Administrative Agent
means, at any time, and with respect to any Person, (a) any other Person that at such time directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such first Person, and (b) any Person beneficially owning or holding, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Person of which the Company and its Subsidiaries beneficially own or hold, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests. As used in this definition, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to an is a reference to an Affiliate of the Company.
Affiliate
Control
Affiliate
is defined in Section 17.3.
Agreement
means Executive Order No. 13,224 of September 24, 2001, Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit or Support Terrorism, 66 U.S. Fed. Reg. 49, 079 (2001), as amended.
Anti-Terrorism Order
means the Credit Agreement dated as of May 9, 2005 by and among the Company, certain Subsidiaries of the Company named therein, the Administrative Agent, and the Bank Lenders and other financial institutions party thereto, as amended, restated, joined, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and any renewals, extensions or replacements thereof, which constitute the primary bank credit facility of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Bank Credit Agreement
means the banks and financial institutions party to the Bank Credit Agreement.
Bank Lenders
means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are required or authorized to be closed.
Business Day
means, at any time, a lease with respect to which the lessee is required concurrently to recognize the acquisition of an asset and the incurrence of a liability in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
means, with respect to any Person and a Capital Lease, the amount of the obligation of such Person as the lessee under such Capital Lease which would, in accordance with GAAP, appear as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Lease Obligation
means any of the following events or circumstances: (a) any Person or related Persons constituting a group for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act shall have acquired beneficial ownership of a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company, or (b) during any period of 24 consecutive months commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who were directors of the Company at the beginning of the period shall cease for any reason (other than due to death or disability) to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Change of Control
is defined in Section 3.
Closing
means the date of the Closing.
Closing Date
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.
Code
is defined in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Company
is defined in Section 20.
Confidential Information
means, collectively, (a) that certain .
Consignment Agreements
precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 30, 2001, as amended October 10, 2006 between Bank of Nova Scotia and the Company, (b) that certain precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between JPMorgan Chase Bank and the Company, (c) that certain precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between Mitsui & Co., Precious Metals Inc. and the Company, and (d) that certain precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 15, 2005 between ABN AMRO NV, Australian Branch and the Company, and any renewals, extensions or replacements of any of the foregoing agreements
means as of any date of determination the total amount of all Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of this Agreement, Consolidated Debt shall not include any Debt incurred in connection with the Consignment Agreements.
Consolidated Debt
shall mean, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus, to the extent deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income and without duplication, (a) depreciation, depletion, if any, and amortization expense for such period, (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (c) income tax expense for such period, and (d) other non-cash charges for such period, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive quarters, if during such period the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall have acquired or disposed of any Person or acquired or disposed of all or substantially all of the operating assets of any Person, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such transaction occurred on the first day of such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
shall mean, for any period, the gross interest expense of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries deducted in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Expense
shall mean, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
shall mean the consolidated stockholders equity of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, as defined according to GAAP.
Consolidated Net Worth
means, as of any date of determination, the total amount of all assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
means, with respect to any Person, without duplication,
Debt
(a)     
its liabilities for borrowed money;
its liabilities for the deferred purchase price of property acquired by such Person (excluding accounts payable and other accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business but including, without limitation, all liabilities created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to any such property);
(b)     
Debt of any Person shall include all obligations of such Person of the character described in clauses (a) through (e) to the extent such Person remains legally liable in respect thereof notwithstanding that any such obligation is deemed to be extinguished under GAAP.
means an event or condition the occurrence or existence of which would, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, become an Event of Default.
Default
means the rate of interest that is the greater of (i) 2% per annum above the rate of interest then in effect pursuant to clause (a) of the first paragraph of the Notes or (ii) 2% over the rate or interest publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank in New York, New York as its base or prime rate.
Default Rate
is defined in Section 5.3.
Disclosure Documents
means any and all federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including but not limited to those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
ERISA
means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is treated as a single employer together with the Company under section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
is defined in Section 11.
Event of Default
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
means, at any time and with respect to any property, the sale value of such property that would be realized in an arms-length sale at such time between an informed and willing buyer and an informed and willing seller (neither being under a compulsion to buy or sell), as reasonably determined in the good faith opinion of the Companys board of directors.
Fair Market Value
means those generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States of America; provided that, if the Company notifies the Required Holders that the Company wishes to amend any negative covenants (or any definition hereof) to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such covenant or definition, then the Companys compliance with such covenant or the meaning of such definition shall be determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Company and the Required Holders.
GAAP
means
Governmental Authority
(a)     
the government of
(i)     
the United States of America or any state or other political subdivision thereof, or
any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of, or pertaining to, any such government.
means, with respect to any Person, any obligation (except the endorsement in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) of such Person guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any Debt, dividend or other obligation of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including (without limitation) obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such Person:
Guaranty
(a)     
to purchase such Debt or obligation or any property constituting security therefor primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or obligation of the ability of any other Person to make payment of the Debt or obligation;
to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation, or (ii) to maintain any working capital or other balance sheet condition or any income statement condition of any other Person or otherwise to advance or make available funds for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation;
(b)     
In any computation of the Debt or other liabilities of the obligor under any Guaranty, the Debt or other obligations that are the subject of such Guaranty shall be assumed to be direct obligations of such obligor.
means any and all pollutants, toxic or hazardous wastes or other substances that might pose a hazard to health and safety, the removal of which may be required or the generation, manufacture, refining, production, processing, treatment, storage, handling, transportation, transfer, use, disposal, release, discharge, spillage, seepage or filtration of which is or shall be restricted, prohibited or penalized by any applicable law including, but not limited to, asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum, petroleum products, lead based paint, radon gas or similar restricted, prohibited or penalized substances.
Hazardous Material
means, with respect to any Note, the Person in whose name such Note is registered in the register maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 13.1.
holder
is defined in Section 6.3(e).
INHAM Exemption
means (a) any original purchaser of a Note, (b) any holder of more than $2,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, (c) any bank, trust company, savings and loan association or other financial institution, any pension plan, any investment company, any insurance company, any broker or dealer, or any other similar financial institution or entity, regardless of legal form, and (d) any Related Fund of any holder of any Note.
Institutional Investor
means, with respect to any Person, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other encumbrance, or any interest or title of any vendor, lessor, lender or other secured party to or of such Person under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement (other than an operating lease) or Capital Lease, upon or with respect to any property or asset of such Person (including, in the case of stock, shareholder agreements, voting trust agreements and all similar arrangements).
Lien
is defined in Section 8.8.
Make-Whole Amount
means material in relation to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material
means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, (c) the ability of any Subsidiary Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty or (d) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, the Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Material Adverse Effect
means, at any time, any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company which, together with all other Restricted Subsidiaries of such Restricted Subsidiary, accounts for more than (a) 5% of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company or (b) 5% of consolidated revenue of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined for the then most recently ended period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Company.
Material Subsidiary
means any Plan that is a multiemployer plan (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA).
Multiemployer Plan
is defined in Section 6.3(a).
NAIC Annual Statement
is defined in Section 1.
Notes
means a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer or of any other officer of the Company whose responsibilities extend to the subject matter of such certificate.
Officers Certificate
means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA or any successor thereto.
PBGC
means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
means an employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) that is or, within the preceding five years, has been established or maintained, or to which contributions are or, within the preceding five years, have been made or required to be made, by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or with respect to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Plan
means (a) the Bank Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, or such other principal credit facility or facilities of the Company as may from time to time refinance or replace such facility and (b) any committed or funded debt facility of the Company with an aggregate facility size of at least $50,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in the relevant currency), as of any date of determination.
Principal Credit Facility
means (without duplication), as of the date of any determination thereof, the sum of (a) all unsecured Debt of Restricted Subsidiaries (including all Guaranties of Debt of the Company but excluding (x) Debt owing to the Company or any other Restricted Subsidiary, (y) Debt outstanding at the time such Person became a Restricted Subsidiary (other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as a Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to Section 9.6 hereof), provided that such Debt shall have not been incurred in contemplation of such person becoming a Restricted Subsidiary, and (z) all Guaranties of Debt of the Company by any Restricted Subsidiary which has also guaranteed the Notes and (b) all Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by Liens other than Debt secured by Liens permitted by subparagraphs (a) through (i), inclusive, of Section 10.3.
Priority Debt
or means, unless otherwise specifically limited, real or personal property of any kind, tangible or intangible, choate or inchoate.
property
properties
is defined in Section 8.3(c).
Proposed Prepayment Date
is defined in Section 6.3(a).
PTE
is defined in Section 5.3.
Public Filings
is defined in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Purchasers
means Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84-14 issued by the United States Department of Labor.
QPAM Exemption
means any Person who is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of such term as set forth in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the product of (x) the amount equal to the net proceeds being so applied to the prepayment of Senior Debt in accordance with Section 10.4(2), multiplied by (y) a fraction the numerator of which is the outstanding principal amount of such Note and the denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Senior Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
Ratable Portion
21
Related Fund
means, at any time, the holders of not less than 51% in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding (exclusive of Notes then owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates and any Notes held by parties who are contractually required to abstain from voting with respect to matters affecting the holders of the Notes).
Required Holders
means any Senior Financial Officer and any other officer of the Company with responsibility for the administration of the relevant portion of this Agreement.
Responsible Officer
means any Subsidiary (a) in which at least a majority of the voting securities are owned by the Company and/or one or more Restricted Subsidiaries and (b) which the Company has not designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary by notice in writing given to the holders of the Notes.
Restricted Subsidiary
or shall have the meaning specified in Section 2(1) of the Securities Act.
Securities
Security
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
Securities Act
means, as of the date of any determination thereof, all Consolidated Debt, other than Subordinated Debt.
Senior Debt
means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or comptroller of the Company.
Senior Financial Officer
is defined in Section 6.3.
Source
means all unsecured Debt of the Company which shall contain or have applicable thereto subordination provisions providing for the subordination thereof to other Debt of the Company (including, without limitation, the obligations of the Company under this Agreement or the Notes).
Subordinated Debt
means, as to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity in which such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries owns sufficient equity or voting interests to enable it or them (as a group) ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, to elect a majority of the directors (or Persons performing similar functions) of such entity, and any partnership or joint venture if more than a 50% interest in the profits or capital thereof is owned by such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries (unless such partnership can and does ordinarily take major business actions without the prior approval of such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries). Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to a Subsidiary is a reference to a Subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
means each Subsidiary that is party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Subsidiary Guarantor
means a subsidiary guaranty agreement executed and delivered in connection with Section 9.8 of the Agreement.
Subsidiary Guaranty
is defined in Section 10.5(a).
Successor Corporation
means the period commencing on the date the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary acquires any Person or line of business and ending on the last day of the fourth full fiscal quarter following the date of the consummation of such acquisition, that, at the time of such acquisition and after giving effect thereto, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries are in compliance with Section 10.8.
Transition Period
provided
means any Subsidiary so designated by the Company.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
means United States Public Law 107-56, Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
USA Patriot Act
means, with respect to any Person, any class of shares of stock or other equity interests of such Person having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect the board of directors or other managing entities, as appropriate, of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes or other equity interests of such Person shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
 
We have deleted the phrase being prepaid pursuant to Section 10.4(2), which previously appeared at the end of the Section, and inserted outstanding because the phrase didnt appear to work. Thus, if asset sale proceeds of 90 are going to be applied to pay a portion of the Notes (with an aggregate outstanding principal amount of 250) and a portion of bank debt (with an aggregate outstanding principal amount of 500), 30 should be applied to the Notes and 60 to the bank debt. As originally written, assuming one note of 150 and another note of 100, the formula would require prepayment of the first Note in an amount equal to 90 x 150/90 and a prepayment of the second note in an amount equal to 90 x 100/90.
21
 
 
U = Unrestricted; R = Restricted, as such terms are defined in the Note Purchase Agreement
22
23
All ownership is 100% by DENTSPLY International Inc. and/or its Subsidiaries, except where specifically noted otherwise.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 1
No. [_______]     [Date] $[__________]     PPN
[________]
For Value Received, the undersigned, Dentsply International Inc. (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby promises to pay to [_____________________] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] Dollars (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on [_______] with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance thereof at the rate of 4.11% per annum (subject to increase as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below) from the date hereof until maturity, payable semi-annually on the [____] day of each [_______] and [_______] in each year, commencing [_______], until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at the Default Rate (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below), on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable semi-annually as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
Company
Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in New York, New York or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (herein called the ) issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company and the respective Purchasers named therein and is entitled to the benefits thereof. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Section 6.3 of the Note Purchase Agreement, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
Notes
Note Purchase Agreement
provided
This Note is a registered Note and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holders attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
The Company will make required prepayments of principal on the date and in the amounts specified in the Note Purchase Agreement. This Note is subject to optional prepayment, in whole or from time to time in part, at the times and on the terms specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, but not otherwise.
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including the applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the issuer and holder hereof shall be governed by, the law of the State of New York excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
Dentsply International Inc.
By
     Name:
     Title:
Actual maturity date and all interest date information to be inserted before Closing.
24
 
EXHIBIT 4.4(a)
The closing opinion of Brian Addison, General Counsel of the Company, which is called for by Section 4.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement, shall be dated the date of Closing and addressed to the Purchasers, shall be satisfactory in scope and form to each Purchaser and shall be to the effect that:
The Company has the full corporate power and the corporate authority to conduct the activities in which it is now engaged, has the corporate power and authority to execute and perform the Note Purchase Agreement and to issue the Notes and is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary except in jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company.
1.     
2. Each Subsidiary is a corporation or similar legal entity, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary except in jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the business of such Subsidiary. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of each such Subsidiary have been duly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, by one or more Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries.
     
3.     The issuance and sale of the Notes, the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Note Purchase Agreement, and the execution, delivery and performance by each Subsidiary Guarantor of the Subsidiary Guaranty do not violate any provision of any law or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor or conflict with or result in any breach of any of the provisions of or constitute a default under or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any property of the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of the Articles or Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, or such similar organizational or governing instrument, as the case may be, of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor or any agreement or other instrument known to such counsel to which the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor is a party or by which the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor may be bound.
4.     There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of such counsel after due inquiry, threatened against or affecting the Company or any Subsidiary in any court or before any governmental authority or arbitration board or tribunal which, if adversely determined, would have a materially adverse effect on the properties, business, profits or condition, (financial or otherwise) of the Company and its Subsidiaries or the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Notes or on the legality, validity or enforceability of the Companys obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Notes. To the knowledge of such counsel, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default with respect to any court or governmental authority, or arbitration board or tribunal.
5.     The Note Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
6.     The Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitute the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
7.     No approval, consent or withholding of objection on the part of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any governmental body, Federal or state, is necessary in connection with the execution and delivery of the Note Purchase Agreement or the Notes.
8.     The issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes under the circumstances contemplated by the Note Purchase Agreement do not, under existing law, require the registration of the Notes under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
9.     Neither the issuance of the Notes nor the application of the proceeds of the sale of the Notes will violate or result in a violation of Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any regulation issued pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
10. The Company is not an investment company or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     
The opinion shall also cover such other matters relating to the sale of the Notes as each Purchaser may reasonably request and successors and assigns of the Purchasers shall be entitled to rely on such opinion. With respect to matters of fact on which such opinion is based, such counsel shall be entitled to rely on appropriate certificates of public officials and other officers of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
EXHIBIT 4.4(b)
The closing opinion of Bingham McCutchen LLP, special counsel to the Purchasers, called for by Section 4.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement, shall be dated the date of Closing and addressed to each Purchaser, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to each Purchaser and shall be to the effect that:
1.     The Company is a corporation, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has the corporate power and the corporate authority to execute and deliver the Note Purchase Agreement and to issue the Notes.
2.     The Note Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
3.     The Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and the Notes being delivered on the date hereof have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
4.     The issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes and the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty under the circumstances contemplated by the Note Purchase Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranty do not, under existing law, require the registration of the Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
With respect to matters of fact upon which such opinion is based, Bingham McCutchen LLP may rely on appropriate certificates of public officials and officers of the Company and upon representations of the Company and the Purchasers delivered in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes.
In rendering the opinion set forth in paragraph 1 above, Bingham McCutchen LLP may rely, as to matters referred to in paragraph 1, solely upon an examination of the Articles of Incorporation certified by, and a certificate of good standing of the Company from, the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the Bylaws of the Company and the general business corporation law of the State of Delaware. The opinion of Bingham McCutchen LLP is limited to the laws of the State of New York, the general business corporation law of the State of Delaware and the Federal laws of the United States.
 


