FILE:XRAY/XRAY-8K-20110214185631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Mr. Willie A. Deese was appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company on February 11, 2011.  Attached is a copy of the Press Release announcing Mr. Deeses appointment.  A decision has not yet been made as to the Board Committee to which Mr. Deese will be assigned. Mr. Deese will participate in the same compensation plans as the other Directors, which are the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and the Companys Equity Incentive Plan.
Item 9.02 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)   Exhibits:
99.1   DENTSPLY International Inc. press release dated February 11, 2011
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 14, 2011
 
 

 
News
For further information contact:
Michele E. Mummert
Manager, Corporate Communications
Phone 717-849-4465
Email:          For Immediate Release
michele.mummert@dentsply.com
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
York, PA  February 11, 2011  DENTSPLY International Inc. (NASDAQ-XRAY) announced today that Willie A. Deese has been appointed to serve as a member of the Board of Directors with his initial term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Deese is Executive Vice President of Merck & Co., Inc. and has been President of the Merck Manufacturing Division since May 2005. In this role, Mr. Deese oversees 92 manufacturing sites spanning 30 countries, has led manufacturing for the introduction of multiple new medicines and vaccines, and implemented lean manufacturing across the company's manufacturing network. Mr. Deese joined Merck, a $46 billion global biopharmaceutical company, in January 2004 as Senior Vice President of Global Procurement.
 
Throughout his career, Mr. Deese has been actively involved in the operational and financial aspects of several market leading companies, with more than a decade of senior executive experience. Mr. Deese began his career in 1976 at Digital Equipment Corp. in Springfield, Mass. and joined SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals in Philadelphia in 1992, ultimately becoming Vice President and Director, Purchasing. In 1996, Mr. Deese served as Vice President of Purchasing, at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland, Calif. In 1997, he returned to SmithKline Beecham as Senior Vice President and Director of Purchasing. Mr. Deese led the integration of the Glaxo and SmithKline procurement organizations through their merger, becoming Senior Vice President, Global Procurement and Logistics for GlaxoSmithKline in 2001.
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Deese earned his B.A. in Business Administration at North Carolina A&T State University in 1977, and his M.B.A. at Western New England College in 1983.
 
Bret Wise, DENTSPLY's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, states, Our Company is pleased to have someone with Mr. Deeses broad executive experience and talent join our Board of Directors. Willie is highly regarded in the pharmaceutical industry and will contribute to DENTSPLYs successful achievement of strategic business initiatives.
 
DENTSPLY designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of professional dental products including dental implants, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic appliances, restorative materials, preventive materials and devices, and prosthetic materials and devices. The Company distributes its dental products in over 120 countries under some of the most well-established brand names in the industry.
 
DENTSPLY is committed to the development of innovative, high quality, cost-effective new products for the dental market.
 
 
 
 
 


