FILE:XRAY/XRAY-8K-20110926100858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
  
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OF A REGISTRANT
On September 21, 2011, the Company entered into a variable rate term loan agreement for 12.55 billion Japanese yen (the Yen Agreement), of which the proceeds will be received by the Company by the end of September 2011, and which matures on September 29, 2014.  The proceeds of the Yen Agreement will be used to prepay an existing yen denominated variable rate term loan for the same principle amount, which was set to mature in March 2012.  The Yen Agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.9 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
  
 
 
 
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 26, 2011
  
 
 
 
 

     
 
 
Dated:           September 21, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of September 21, 2011 by and among DENTSPLY International Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the ""), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Development Bank of Japan Inc., The Shinkumi Federation Bank, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited, The Chiba Bank, Ltd., as lenders (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "" and individually as a "") and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. acting in its capacity as the agent (hereinafter referred to as the "").
this Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
Agent
Article 1      Definition
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
18           "" means an event described in Article 19.
Event of Default
 
- 4 -
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
- 6 -
 
50           "" has the meaning given to that term in Article 15.
Unsatisfied Item
 
- 7 -
 
Article 2      Rights and Obligations of Lender
Article 3      Use of Proceeds
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the funds procured from the Loan only for general corporate purposes.  Neither the Agent nor any of the Lenders shall be obliged to monitor or review the way in which such proceeds are actually used by the Borrower.
 
- 8 -
 
     
Article 4
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Individual Advance
Each Lender shall make an Individual Advance, subject to fulfillment of all the following conditions (irrespective whether or not the notice pursuant to Article 6(1) having been made) as of the Disbursement Date.  The fulfillment of the conditions precedent shall be determined by each Lender, and the other Lenders and the Agent shall not be liable for a Lender's determination of and non-performance of the Individual Advance by it.
 
- 9 -
 
 
Article 5      Disbursement of the Loan
 
 
- 10 -
 
Article 6      Non-Disbursement of the Individual Advance
 
- 11 -
 
Article 7      Exemption from Liability of the Lenders
Article 8      Increased Costs and Illegality
 
- 12 -
 
Article 9      Repayment of Principal
The Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 15, repay the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding in its entirety on the Maturity Date.
 
- 13 -
 
 
Article 10    Interest
Article 11    Prepayment
 
 
- 14 -
 
Article 12    Default Interest
 
- 15 -
 
 
Article 13    Agent Fee
The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its services rendered as Agent hereunder the Agent Fee as agreed separately between the Borrower and the Agent.
Article 14    Expenses and Taxes and Duties
 
- 16 -
 
Article 15    Performance of Obligations by the Borrower
 
- 17 -
 
 
Article 16    Distribution to the Lenders
 
 
- 18 -
 
Article 17    Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Agent that each of the following matters is and will be true and correct as at the date of execution hereof:
 
- 19 -
 
 
- 20 -
 
Article 18    Covenants of the Borrower
 
 
- 21 -
 
 
- 22 -
 
 
- 23 -
 
 
The respective obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement rank and shall continue to rank at least in respect of priority of payment and in all other respects with all its other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, save as provided by applicable laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or similar laws of general application.
pari passu
The Borrower will not create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
 
 
- 24 -
 
 
For the purposes of this Paragraph:
 
- 25 -
 
The Borrower shall maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; provided, however, that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
The Borrower will, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA, Environmental Laws and the PATRIOT Act.
 
- 26 -
 
The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, carry on and conduct its business in substantially the same manner and in substantially the same fields of enterprise as it is presently conducted and do all things necessary to remain duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) in good standing as a corporation, partnership or limited liability company in its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, as the case may be, and maintain all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower will preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain a ratio of consolidated debt to the sum of consolidated debt plus consolidate net worth of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries of not greater than 0.55 to 1.00.  For the purposes of this Paragraph, "" means all items that, in accordance with GAAP, would be classified as indebtedness on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries.
consolidated debt
The Borrower shall maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries to the sum of interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all debt during such period by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of not less than 3.50 to 1.00.  For the purposes of this Paragraph, "" means, for any period, net income (or net loss) plus the sum of (a) interest expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense and (d) amortization expense, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP for such period.
EBITDA
 
- 27 -
 
Article 19    Events of Default
 
- 28 -
 
For the purposes of this Paragraph:
"" of the Borrower means any Subsidiary (a) whose net sales for the fiscal year in respect of which such statements and related balance sheet were prepared (or the last full fiscal year in the case of quarterly financial statements) exceeded 10% of the consolidated net sales of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such fiscal year or (b) whose total assets as at the end of such fiscal year were in excess of 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
Material Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, property which (i) represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries (latest available) as of the beginning of the twelve-month period ending with the month in which such determination is made, or (ii) is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the consolidated net income of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as reflected in the consolidated financial statements referred to in the foregoing item (i).
substantial portion
 
- 29 -
 
 
- 30 -
 
 
- 31 -
 
 
Article 20   Set-Off
 
- 32 -
 
Article 21    Adjustment among Lenders and Agent
If the obligations of the Borrower to any of the Lenders under this Agreement have extinguished otherwise than pursuant to the provisions of Article 15 (including the case as provided in Article 20), then the Lenders and the Agent shall, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, make an adjustment among them by transfer or purchase of the Individual Loan or the taking of other appropriate measures, so as to attain the same result as if such obligations to the Agent and the Lenders extinguished through the payment pursuant to Article 15.
Article 22    Rights and Duties of the Agent
 
 
- 33 -
 
 
 
- 34 -
 
Article 23    Decision-Making of the Majority Lenders
 
 
- 35 -
 
Article 24    Amendments, Etc.
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be made validly unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders; provided, however, with respect to the amendment or waiver of the matters referred to below, no such amendment or waiver may be made validly without being consented to in writing by the Borrower and the Lenders unless otherwise provided for herein.
Article 25    Transfer of Status
 
- 36 -
 
 
 
- 37 -
 
 
Article 26    Transfer of the Individual Loan
 
- 38 -
 
Article 27    Collection from Third Party, Etc.
 
- 39 -
 
When a third party exercises the right of indemnity or obtains claims in subrogation, such acquisition of the right of indemnity or claims in subrogation shall be deemed to be a transfer of the Individual Loan pursuant to Article 26 and the provisions of Article 26(2) shall be applied thereto.
mutatis mutandis
Article 28    General Provisions
The Borrower shall not object to the disclosure as described in the following Sub-paragraphs:
 
 
- 40 -
 
 
 
- 41 -
 
Even if a part of the provisions of this Agreement becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be impaired or affected in any sense.
 
- 42 -
 
As for the calculations, unless there is a separate and express provision in this Agreement, they shall be made on the daily basis of a 360-day year for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day) with division being made at the end of the calculation with any fraction of less than JPY1 being rounded down.
Whenever so requested by the Agent or the Majority Lenders, the Borrower shall forthwith take procedures necessary to execute a notary deed or other document upon which enforcement without court trial is conferred , with respect to its obligations under this Agreement in which it admits such obligations and agrees to the enforcement of them.  All costs incurred in relation to the preparation of such notary deed or other document shall be borne by the Borrower.
de jure
 
- 43 -
 
 
This Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with Japanese law and any dispute arising from or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought before the Tokyo District Court, which shall have a non-exclusive jurisdiction.
This Agreement shall be prepared in the English language and the version of this Agreement so prepared shall constitute an original.
In the event that there arises a matter not provided herein or a question with respect to the interpretation hereof among the parties hereto, the Borrower and the Lenders shall consult one another through the Agent to resolve the matter.
Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notify the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the PATRIOT Act, such Lender or the Agent is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent to identify the Borrower in accordance with the PATRIOT Act.
 
- 44 -
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement shall be made and entered into in the United States of America.  This Agreement has been executed in two (2) originals in the English language, with the name and seal or signature of a representative or agent of each of the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent affixed hereto.  The Borrower and the Agent shall retain each such original and other parties hereto shall each retain a copy thereof.
September 21, 2011
 
 
- 45 -
 
 
- 46 -
 
 
 
- 47 -
 
 
 
- 48 -
 
 
 
- 49 -
 
 
 
- 50 -
 
 
 
- 51 -
 
 
 
- 52 -
 
Schedule  (List of Parties)
1.     Borrower
2.     Agent
 
 
- 53 -
 
3. Lenders
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 
 
- 54 -
 
(5)
 
- 55 -
 
Attachment 1 (Receipt)
Date: September 28, 2011
To:     The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
Development Bank of Japan Inc.
The Shinkumi Federation Bank
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited
The Chiba Bank, Ltd.
c/o:     The Agent
  The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
  Administration Office, Syndicated Finance Division
In reference to the Term Loan Agreement executed as of September 21, 2011 by and among DENTSPLY International Inc. as Borrower, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Development Bank of Japan Inc., The Shinkumi Federation Bank, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited and The Chiba Bank, Ltd. as Lenders, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. as Agent, we hereby confirm that we have made the borrowings described below from each Lender and received the respective borrowed monies on the date hereof.
 
Aggregate Amount of Borrowing and Detailed Statement
 
- 56 -
 
 
- 57 -
 
Attachment 2 (Notice of Status Assignment to the Agent)
Date: ______________
To: The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
   
 (in its capacity as Agent referred to below)
      Administration Office, Syndicated Finance Division
In reference to the Term Loan Agreement (the "Agreement") executed as of September 21, 2011 by and among DENTSPLY International Inc. as Borrower, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Development Bank of Japan Inc., The Shinkumi Federation Bank, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited and The Chiba Bank, Ltd. as Lenders, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. as Agent, we hereby notify you as follows.
Pursuant to the Agreement on Assignment and Assumption executed as of _________, between _____ (the "Status Transferor") and ______ (the "Status Transferee"), the Status Transferor will assign its status and all of its rights and obligations (Individual Loan: JPY_____________) under the Agreement to the Status Transferee as of _______________ in accordance with Article 25(2) of the Agreement.  Consent of the Borrower, the Lenders (other than the Status Transferor) and the Agent to such assignment has been already obtained, and copies of such consent are attached hereto.
Contact details for notices to be given under the Agreement and information on the account of the Status Transferee receiving the relevant funds are as follows:
 
- 58 -
 
 
Name of the Status Transferee:
Address:
Lending Office:
Attention:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Receiving Account
Name of the Bank:
Bank Code:
Name of Branch Office:
Branch Office Code:
Type of Account:
Account Number:
Name of Account:
We have paid the handling fee for such assignment totaling JPY500,000 plus the consumption tax to you on ________________ by the Status Transferor / the Status Transferee.
 
 
- 59 -
 
Attachment 3 (Notice of Assignment to the Agent)
Date: ______________
To: The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
    (in its capacity as Agent referred to below)
     Administration Office, Syndicated Finance Division
In reference to the Term Loan Agreement (the "Agreement") executed as of September 21, 2011 by and among DENTSPLY International Inc. as Borrower, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Development Bank of Japan Inc., The Shinkumi Federation Bank, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited and The Chiba Bank, Ltd. as Lenders, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. as Agent, we hereby notify you as follows.
Pursuant to the Agreement on Assignment and Assumption executed as of ____________, between _________ (the "Assignor") and _________ (the "Assignee"), the Assignor will assign the following rights and obligations under the Agreement to the Assignee as of _______________ in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Agreement.  Consent to such assignment by the Borrower has already been obtained, and a copy of such consent is attached hereto.
 
 
- 60 -
 
The whole / partial amount of the Individual Loan held by the Assignor (i.e. the entitlement to payment of principal and interest and any other rights and obligations related thereto or otherwise the status under the Agreement) pertaining to the borrowing with the Disbursement Date being September 28, 2011 and the Maturity Date being September 29, 2014.
Contact details for notices to be given under the Agreement and information on the receiving account of the Assignee are as follows:
Name of the Assignee
Address:
Lending Office:
Attention:
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Receiving Account
Name of the Bank:
Bank Code:
Name of Branch Office:
Branch Office Code:
Type of Account:
Account Number:
Name of Account:
We have paid the handling fee for such assignment totaling JPY500,000 plus the consumption tax to you on _____________by the Assignor/ the Assignee.
Sincerely yours,
 
- 61 -
 
 
 
- 62 -
 


