FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20050518173054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On May 12, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "") of the board of directors of Network Appliance, Inc. (the "") approved a $5,000 increase in the annual cash compensation to be paid to the Company's Audit Committee chairperson, Nicholas Moore, raising the annual cash compensation payable to him for his services as the Audit Committee's chairperson from $10,000 to $15,000, effective immediately.
Committee
Company
     On May 12, 2005, the Committee also approved the following compensation arrangements for its executive officers:
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
I. OVERVIEW
For the purposes of this Plan "Base Pay" cash compensation consists of actual gross base salary, hourly wages, over-time pay, lead and shift differentials and paid time-off for holidays, vacation and sick time. "Base Pay" excludes any other compensation, including but not limited to bonus or incentive payments of any sort, car allowances, relocation payments, expense reimbursements and advances, loans, payments received in lieu of benefit plan participation, club membership reimbursements and payments received from Company or government sponsored benefit plans, including but not limited to disability pay, wage replacement benefits, short-term/long-term disability payments, and workers' compensation benefits.
For purposes of this Plan, "regular employee" means an individual who is in the employ of the Company during the fiscal year and is subject to the control and direction of the employing entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance. Persons who have been designated by the Company as independent contractors, temporary employees, consultants or advisors shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan, regardless of whether such designation is upheld in any legal or administrative proceeding.
 
II. INCENTIVE POOL GUIDELINES
For the purposes of the Plan "Operating Profits" shall represent the company's reported income from operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles adjusted to exclude the following: (i) any amounts accrued by the Company pursuant to the FY 2004 Incentive Plan; (ii) any operating profit items excluded from the company's reported proforma result. These items can include amortization of goodwill and intangibles, acquired in-process research & development, stock compensation and restructuring charges.
 
III. INCENTIVE AWARDS
If the Company elects to use only Base Pay as the basis to determine the amount of incentive awards to be made under this Plan, no pro-rata adjustment will be made to a Participant's incentive award amount due to late entry into Plan Participation or due to a leave of absence during the Plan Period.
 
IV. MISCELLANEOUS
 


