FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20070823161322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Share Repurchase As previously announced, on August 14, 2007 the Board of Directors of Network Appliance, Inc. (the "Registrant") approved a new stock repurchase program in which up to $1 billion worth of its outstanding common stock may be purchased. This approval is in addition to $200 million remaining from all prior authorizations. Under the program, the Registrant may purchase shares of its common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchases under this program will depend on market conditions, corporate considerations and regulatory requirements. The purchases will be funded from available working capital. Pursuant to that authorization, on August 20, 2007, the Registrant entered into a Master Confirmation and a Pricing Supplement (together the "Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. ("BofA") relating to a Capped Accelerated Share Repurchase Program. The Registrant will purchase a variab le number of shares of its common stock from BofA for an aggregate purchase price of $225 million pursuant to a private capped accelerated share repurchase program. The final per share purchase price and the number of shares to be repurchased will be based on a discount to the volume weighted average price ("VWAP") of Registrants common stock over a specified period of time, with a cap based on BofA's initial hedge price. In addition, the Registrant will have no obligation to pay any further market purchase price adjustment under the program. The initial shares are expected to be delivered to the Registrant on or around August 23, 2007. At the end of the specified period, the Registrant may receive additional shares should the VWAP for the period be below the cap price. The repurchased shares will be held as treasury stock and recorded as a reduction in stockholders' equity on the Registrant's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the Registrants outstanding shares used to calculate earn ings per share will be immediately reduced by the number of repurchased shares when delivered. The Agreement contains other terms governing the program, including, but not limited to, the mechanism used to determine the final settlement of the transaction, the settlement method, the circumstances under which BofA is permitted to make adjustments to valuation periods, circumstances under which the program may be terminated early, and various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by the Registrant and BofA to one another, including representations related to Rule 10b5-1 and intended compliance with the Rule 10b-18 volume and timing guidelines. The foregoing description of the agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Master Confirmation, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Registrants Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending October 26, 2007.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The disclosure provided in Item 1.01 "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03 as if fully set forth herein.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


