FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20070719173810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 17, 2007, Network Appliance Inc. ("the Company") entered into a $61.0 million financing, construction and leasing arrangement with BNP Paribas LLC ("BNP") for approximately 120,000 square feet of facility space to be located on land currently owned by the Company in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Under the terms of the transaction documents, the Company has agreed to lease its land to BNP for a period of 99 years, to act as construction manager for BNP to complete the construction of a data center by approximately January 2009, and to lease the completed data center from BNP for a term expiring in August 2014. The lease can be renewed for up to two consecutive periods of 5 years each upon approval by BNP and satisfaction of the other conditions to extension set forth in the transaction documents. This lease arrangement requires the Company ("the Lessee") to pay minimum lease payments after completion of construction which vary based on London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a s pread. In addition, the Company must pay certain fees (including, commitment and administrative agency fees), and, following completion of construction, all of the taxes, insurance, ground lease rent, maintenance, and repair costs with respect to the project. Upon the expiration of the term (or upon any earlier termination) of the lease term, the Company must elect one of the following options: (i) the Company may purchase the data center for $61.0 million, generally, the Break-Even Price, (ii) if certain conditions are met, the Company may arrange for the sale of the data center to a third party provided that the Company pays any deficiency between the sales proceeds and the Break Even Amount, up to a maximum $51.85 million, or (iii) the Company makes a supplemental payment to BNP equal to $51.85 million, in which event, the Company will have the opportunity to recoup some or all of such payment by arranging for the sale of the building during the ensuing 2 year period. In connection with the transaction, the Company has agreed to maintain specified financial covenants which include a maximum ratio of Total Debt to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") and a Minimum Liquidity (cash and marketable securities as reported in the Companys 10-K and 10-Q filings.) The foregoing description of the agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Lease Agreements, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Registrants Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for period ending July 27, 2007.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The disclosure provided in Item 1.01 "Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03 as if fully set forth herein.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


