FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20080625172609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On June 19, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of NetApp, Inc. (the "Company") approved compensation packages for fiscal year 2009 for the Company's senior executive officers, including the named executive officers. Effective August 4, 2008, the annual base salaries for fiscal year 2009 for the following named executive officers (including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer) will be:
     The approval of annual base salaries for the executives was based on an annual review of the compensation of senior management positions. Based on the results of the review, the Committee concluded that base salaries for certain executives, including certain of the named executive officers, was below market (based on a review of peer companies) and below the Company's own compensation target range, and therefore approved increases in base salaries accordingly.
     Target incentive compensation percentages (which are expressed as a percentage of annual base salary) remained unchanged for each of the named executive officers for fiscal year 2009.
     As part of its annual review and approval of total executive compensation, the Committee also approved Change of Control Severance Agreements (each, an "Agreement") for certain of the Company's senior executives, including each of the named executive officers. The material terms of the Agreements are as follows:
. If the Company terminates an executive's employment without Cause (as such term is defined in the Agreement) or if the executive resigns for Good Reason (as such term is defined in the Agreement), and such termination occurs on or within twelve (12) months after a Change of Control (as such term is defined in the Agreement), then subject to the executive signing and not revoking a separation agreement and release of claims in favor of the Company, the executive will receive the following from the Company:
Severance Benefits
Table of Contents
. In the event that the severance payments and other benefits payable to an executive constitute "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the U.S. tax code and would be subject to the applicable excise tax, then the executive's severance benefits will be either (i) delivered in full or (ii) delivered to such lesser extent which would result in no portion of such benefits being subject to the excise tax, whichever results in the receipt by the executive on an after-tax basis of the greatest amount of benefits.
Excise Tax
. Each Agreement has an initial term of three (3) years, and will renew automatically for an additional one (1) year term unless either party to the Agreement provides the other with a notice of non-renewal at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of automatic renewal. If a Change of Control occurs at any time during the term of the Agreement, the term of the Agreement will automatically be extended for twelve (12) months following the effective date of the Change of Control. If an executive becomes entitled to severance benefits pursuant to his Agreement, the Agreement will not terminate until all obligations of the Company under the Agreement have been satisfied.
Term
Table of Contents
     The foregoing description of the material terms of the Agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Agreements, the forms of which will be filed as exhibits to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for period ending July 25, 2008.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


