FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20081112160542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 12, 2008
______________
NetApp, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
(408) 822-6000
(
Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 12, 2008, NetApp, Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the second quarter fiscal year 2009.  The press release is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K, and the information set forth therein is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
NetApp, Inc.s November 12, 2008 press release is hereby furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K in connection with the disclosures under Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Index to Exhibits

Exhibit 99.1
NetApp Announces Results for Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2009
Q2 Revenues of $912 Million, Up 15% Year over Year
SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 12, 2008--NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the second fiscal quarter of 2009. Revenues for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 were $912 million, an increase of 15% compared to revenues of $792 million for the same period a year ago.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2009, GAAP net income was $49 million, or $0.15 per share compared to GAAP net income of $84 million, or $0.23 per share for the same period in the prior year. Non-GAAP net income for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 was $92 million, or $0.28 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $116 million, or $0.32 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
Revenues for the first six months of the current fiscal year totaled $1.78 billion, compared to revenues of $1.48 billion for the first six months of the prior year, an increase of 20% year over year.
GAAP net income for the first six months of the current fiscal year totaled $87 million, or $0.26 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $118 million, or $0.32 per share for the first six months of the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP net income for the first six months of the current fiscal year totaled $168 million, or $0.50 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $192 million, or $0.52 per share for the first six months of the prior fiscal year.
NetApp produced solid revenue and earnings results despite a challenging economic environment, said Dan Warmenhoven, chairman and CEO. More and more customers are turning to NetApp to drive down their storage costs by increasing their storage utilization. We expect NetApp's unique storage efficiency offerings to resonate well with customers, particularly during periods of constrained IT spending.
Outlook
Given the reduced visibility caused by the recent changes in the macroeconomic environment, NetApp will not be providing formal revenue guidance for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009.
NetApp estimates non-GAAP gross margins for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 to be substantially the same level as reported in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009.
NetApp estimates non-GAAP operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 to be roughly flat from the operating expenses reported in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009.
Quarterly Highlights
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, NetApp introduced new solutions that continue to help customers transform their data center architectures through higher efficiencies and asset utilization, greater power and space savings, and innovative data management techniques. NetApp also received many industry awards that recognize its leadership in quality, innovation, and service in the storage market.
NetApp launched a global program that offers customers a guarantee that they will use 50% less storage in their virtual environments with NetApp compared to traditional storage. NetApp wants to assure customers who choose NetApp and leverage its unique storage efficiency technologies that they will reduce their overall storage usage while improving performance.
3
During the second quarter, NetApp announced that it will be the first storage vendor to offer native Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) SAN storage solutions. FCoE support extends NetApp's unified storage architecture, enabling customers to address changing business needs and opportunities with flexible data access across all protocols.
NetApp announced the availability of deduplication on NetApp Virtual Tape Library (VTL) systems, enabling customers to lower the disk capacity required to back up any storage system, including EMC and HP, up to 95%.
4
During the quarter, NetApp announced the NetApp GetSuccessful Partner Enablement Program to help partners maximize strategic opportunities and distinguish themselves with their customers. The program is a new benefit of NetApps current VIP Partner Program and complements the Authorized Professional Service Provider and the Virtualization Specialization programs announced earlier this year.
NetApp continues to receive industry recognition from third parties. During the quarter, NetApp received the following awards:
Diogenes Labs' Magazine Quality Awards for the Enterprise Arrays category ()
Storage
Storage
2008 500 ()
InformationWeek
InformationWeek
Penton Media's Windows IT Pro 2008 Community Choice Awards ()
Windows IT Pro
Service Management Achievement Award for Executive Stewardship (Aberdeen Group)
2008 Rising Star Award (Global Technology Distribution Council), Learning in Practice Awards (magazine)
Chief Learning Officer
"Best Places to Work" in Research Triangle Park 2008 ()
Triangle Business Journal
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp quarterly results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, November 12, 2008, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location.
http://investors.netapp.com
The conference call will also be available live in a listen-only format at (866) 831-6270 in the United States and (617) 213-8858 outside the United States. The pass code for both numbers is 96289060.
A replay will be available for 72 hours following the completion of the live call by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the United States and (617) 801-6888 outside the United States, using replay code 76798622. The Webcast replay will be posted on our Web site for at least one year.
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that accelerate business breakthroughs and deliver outstanding cost efficiency. Discover NetApps passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results and metrics for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and statements regarding our product and service offerings. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the material and adverse global economic and market conditions that currently exist (particularly in the credit markets) and that are expected to persist well into calendar 2009; our ability to build nondeferred backlog to levels consistent with our past results and to increase our revenue over the next several quarters; risks associated with the anticipated growth in network storage and content delivery markets; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; competition risks, including our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; risks with new product introductions; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers; our ability to expand our direct sales operations and reseller distribution channels; our ability to develop, maintain, and strengthen our relationships and product offerings with strategic partners; risks associated with international operations; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate complementary businesses and technologies; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted 10-K and 10-Q. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Earnings per share is calculated using the diluted number of shares for all periods presented.
1
Non-GAAP results of operations exclude amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related retention costs, prior acquisition related costs, net gain or loss on investments, and the related effects on income taxes as well as certain discrete GAAP provisions for income tax matters recognized ratably for non-GAAP purposes.
2
The description of the guarantee program in this press release is a summary and does not purport to be complete. For a full description of the terms and conditions of the program, go to . The description of the guarantee program is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
3
www.netapp.com/guarantee
Based on NetApp internal testing, October 2008.
4
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and GetSuccessful are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. These non-GAAP results of operations exclude amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related retention costs, prior acquisition-related costs, net gain or loss on investments, and the related effects on income taxes as well as certain discrete GAAP provisions for income tax matters recognized ratably for non-GAAP purposes. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. We include these non-GAAP financial measures in our earnings announcement because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making, such as employee compensation planning. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
NetApp Use of Corporate Web Site
In accordance with SEC guidance published on August 22, 2008 , NetApp will begin to disseminate material information about the company through its corporate Web site within the next several fiscal quarters. NetApp intends to designate a separate portion of its corporate Web site for purposes of these disclosures and will include a prominent link on its Web site to allow visitors to locate this material information, which will be routinely updated. The Web site will supplement, rather than replace, NetApp's current existing channels of information distribution.
(Release No. 34-58288)
CONTACT: NetApp David Naumann, 408-822-6551 (Press) Tara Dhillon, 408-822-6909 (Investors) Billie Fagenstrom, 408-822-6428 (Investors)
david.nauman@netapp.com
tara@netapp.com
billief@netapp.com


