FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20090825164919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Appointment of Certain Officers
          Effective August 19, 2009, the Board of Directors of NetApp, Inc. (the "") appointed Thomas Georgens, 49, as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company (including principal executive officer and principal operating officer), to succeed Daniel J. Warmenhoven and appointed Mr. Warmenhoven, 58, to serve in the newly created position of Executive Chairman. Mr. Warmenhoven will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, and Mr. Georgens will continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company. As the Executive Chairman, Mr. Warmenhoven will remain an "officer" for purposes of Rule 16a-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and therefore subject to the filing requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. These management changes are the result of a management succession process.
Company
          Mr. Georgens had been Chief Operating Officer and President of the Company since February 2008. Mr. Georgens joined the Company in October 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of Enterprise Storage Systems and was named executive vice president of Product Operations in January 2007. Before joining the Company, Mr. Georgens worked for nine years at Engenio, a subsidiary of LSI Corporation, the last two years as Chief Executive Officer. He has also served in various other positions, including President of LSI Corporation Storage Systems and Executive Vice President of LSI Corporation.
          There are no family relationships between Messrs. Georgens or Warmenhoven with any other executive officers of the Company or members of the Board of Directors.
          A copy of the press release announcing these officer appointments is filed with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
          In connection with the appointment of Messrs. Georgens and Warmenhoven to their positions as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman of the Company, respectively, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the following compensation packages for fiscal 2010 for the two executive officers:
          Effective as of August 19, 2009, Mr. Georgens' new base annual salary is $825,000 and his target incentive compensation award (expressed as a percentage of his annual base salary) is 130%. In addition, on September 15, 2009, Mr. Georgens will be granted a stock option to purchase 650,000 shares of Company common stock under the Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan.
          Effective as of August 19, 2009, Mr. Warmenhoven's new annual base salary is $450,000 and his target incentive compensation award (expressed as a percentage of his annual base salary) is 110%.
          Other than as indicated herein, the compensation arrangements for Mr. Georgens and Mr. Warmenhoven remain the same.
Change of Control Severance Agreements
          On August 19, 2009, the Company entered into Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreements (each an "" and collectively the "") with each of Mr. Georgens and Mr. Warmenhoven (each an ""). The Agreements supersede the Change of Control Severance Agreement entered into between each Executive and the Company dated June 19, 2008. The severance provisions of the Agreements are described below. The complete terms of the Agreements can be found in the Agreements themselves, which will be filed as exhibits to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending October 30, 2009.
Agreement
Agreements
Executive
          If the Company terminates an Executive without Cause (as such term is defined in the Agreement) or if the Executive resigns for Good Reason (as such term is defined in the Agreement), and such termination occurs within twelve (12) months after a Change of Control, then subject to the terms of the Agreement each Executive will receive the following:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NetApp Names Tom Georgens CEO, Succeeding Dan Warmenhoven
Warmenhoven Named Executive Chairman in a Planned Transition
NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today announced that its Board of Directors appointed Tom Georgens as the company's president and chief executive officer, succeeding Dan Warmenhoven, who led the company as CEO for the past 15 years. The transition in leadership, which is effective immediately, is the result of a management succession process.
Sunnyvale, Calif.August 19, 2009
Georgens, 49, has been president and chief operating officer and a member of the Board of Directors since February 2008. He joined NetApp in October 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of Enterprise Storage Systems and was named executive vice president of Product Operations in January 2007.
Warmenhoven, 58, continues as chairman of the Board of Directors. He also assumes the role of executive chairman, a newly created position to help build and expand relationships with certain strategic partners around the world, including service providers and key technology partners.
"Looking back, I am very proud that NetApp has achieved a leadership position in the storage market and now look forward to supporting Tom as he takes the company through the next stages of growth in a new era for the information technology (IT) industry," said Warmenhoven. "Tom has demonstrated proven leadership capabilities in strategy development and day-to-day operations."
"I am honored to follow in Dan's footsteps," said Georgens. "In just 15 years, NetApp has grown from a $14 million startup with 45 employees into a recognized market leader in networked storage and data management with $3.4 billion in annual revenues and approximately 8,000
 
employees around the world. Dan also helped to cultivate a unique corporate culture, which has resulted in NetApp consistently being recognized as a great place to work."
Georgens added, "I am excited about leading NetApp forward at a time when the IT industry is at a critical inflection point that will create tremendous opportunities and inevitable challenges. We are committed to creating success for our customers and partners in this changing market environment."
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that accelerate business breakthroughs and deliver outstanding cost efficiency. Discover NetApp's passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at . 
www.netapp.com
Jodi Baumann (408) 822-3974 xdl-uspr@netapp.com      
Press Contact:
NetApp, the NetApp logo, and Go further, faster are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
Page 2


