FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20100217162138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 17, 2010, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and prepared remarks reporting financial results for the third quarter ended January 29, 2010.  The press release and prepared remarks are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles  (GAAP) , the press release and prepared remarks furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For its internal budgeting and resource allocation purposes, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures that exclude: (a) the GSA settlement, (b) amortization of intangible assets, (c) stock-based compensation expenses, (d) merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses), (e) restructuring and other charges, (f) asset impairment, (g) noncash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (h) net loss or gain on investments and (i) related income tax effects.  NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps operations. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to its competitors historical results and operating guidance.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A.   NetApp excludes from its revenue the impact of its GSA settlement because management believes that the settlement amount does not reflect NetApps underlying business or future revenue generating potential and, therefore, management excludes the settlement amount in assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
GSA Settlement.
B. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets primarily in connection with its acquisition of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of intangible assets represents non-cash charges and management finds it useful to exclude them variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
C.   NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds excluding them useful in order to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 D.   NetApp excludes merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses) from its non-GAAP measures primarily because these proceeds were not generated by our on-going business and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses).
 E. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies and resizing its business based upon current economic and market conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Restructuring and other charges.
 
 
 
F. These are non-cash charges to write down property and equipment when there was an indication that an asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and
Asset impairment.
forecasting future periods.
G. .  These are non-cash charges that we incurred related to the amortization of the discount on the issuance costs related to our 1.75% convertible senior notes due 2013 and therefore represents non-cash expense.
Noncash interest expense associated with our convertible debt
H.   These non-cash items represent recognized gains and losses on our investment portfolio and does not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses.  Therefore, management finds it useful to exclude these items to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future period.
(Gain) loss on investments, net.
I. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and intangible assets for GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Income tax effects.
J. The income tax effects of discreet GAAP tax provision items relating to Non-GAAP cost and expense and other such items that are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
Discrete GAAP tax provision items.  
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
NetApp Announces Results for Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2010
 
Record Revenues of $1.01 Billion; Non-GAAP EPS of $0.40
 
SUNNYVALE, CA--(Marketwire - February 17, 2010) - NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended January 29, 2010. GAAP revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 were $1.01 billion, compared to GAAP and non-GAAP revenues(1) of $746 million and $874 million, respectively, for the same period one year ago.
 
For the third fiscal quarter of 2010, GAAP net income was $108 million, or $0.30 per share(2) compared to GAAP net loss of $82 million, or ($0.25) per share for the same period in the prior year. Non-GAAP(3) net income for the third fiscal quarter of 2010 was $144 million, or $0.40 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $93 million, or $0.28 per share for the same period one year ago.
 
GAAP revenues for the first nine months of the current fiscal year totaled $2.76 billion, compared to GAAP and non-GAAP revenues of $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year.
 
GAAP net income for the first nine months of the current fiscal year totaled $255 million, or $0.73 per share, compared to GAAP net loss of $4 million, or $0.01 per share for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP net income for the first nine months of the current fiscal year totaled $350 million, or $1.00 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $262 million, or $0.78 per share for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year.
 
"The NetApp team demonstrated remarkable execution this quarter. With record revenues, record profits and record EPS, the company produced double-digit year over year revenue growth and our operations team shipped a record number of systems, despite persistent supply constraints," said Tom Georgens, president and CEO. "I am very pleased with the breadth of our progress. Business levels grew in every major geography, we gained momentum in both our channel and our direct business, and clearly gained market share this quarter."
 
 
 
Outlook
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Highlights
 
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, NetApp made several key announcements regarding new and expanded alliances with top IT industry leaders, the delivery of new products and solutions designed to drive greater efficiency in customers' shared data center infrastructures, and several industry awards and accolades. Key business highlights during the quarter included the following.
 
New and Expanded Strategic Alliances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Products and Solutions
 
 
 
 
Industry Awards and Accolades
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
The NetApp quarterly results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at http://investors.netapp.com on Wednesday, February 17, 2010, at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will also be available after 5:30 p.m. Pacific Time on our Web site at http://investors.netapp.com.
 
Starting this quarter, NetApp will use a new hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with this press release, NetApp has posted and distributed a separate document with financial commentary and statistics that previously were disclosed during our earnings calls. These prepared remarks will now be available at http://investors.netapp.com prior to the conference call in order to provide the investment community with additional time to analyze our results. This commentary will not be read during the earnings call.
 
 
 
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that accelerate business breakthroughs and deliver outstanding cost efficiency. Discover NetApp's passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at www.netapp.com.
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, our expectations regarding our new partnership and strategic alliances and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and those from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in network storage market; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned "Risk Factors" in our most recently submitted 10-K and 10-Q. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
(1) Non-GAAP revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2009 exclude the impact of the $128 million GSA settlement.
 
(2) GAAP earnings per share is calculated using the diluted number of shares for all periods presented except for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which is calculated using the basic number of shares.
 
(3) Non-GAAP results of operations exclude the GSA settlement, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses), restructuring and other charges, asset impairment, noncash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net loss or gain on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Non-GAAP earnings per share is calculated using the diluted number of shares for all periods presented.
 
(4) "Magic Quadrant for Midrange Enterprise Disk Arrays" by Roger Cox, Stan Zaffos, and Pushan Rinnen, November 2009.
 
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and SnapManager are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark and Hyper-V is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. Non-GAAP results of operations exclude the GSA settlement, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses), restructuring and other charges, asset impairment, noncash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net loss or gain on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors' understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. We include these non-GAAP financial measures in our earnings announcement because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making, such as employee compensation planning. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press Contact:
NetApp
Jodi Baumann
Ph: (408) 822-3974
Jodi.Baumann@netapp.com
 
Investor Contacts:
NetApp
Tara Dhillon
Ph: (408) 822-6909
tara@netapp.com
 
NetApp
Billie Fagenstrom
Ph: (408) 822-6428
billief@netapp.com
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Beginning with todays earnings results announcement, NetApp will be publishing written commentary, which has historically been provided during our live conference call, concurrently with our earnings press release. This information will be posted to our investor website and filed in an 8-K with the SEC. The intention of this change in our reporting format is to provide the investment community with additional time to review and analyze more information prior to commencement of the live call. Please note that these prepared remarks will not be read during the call. The live call will focus on strategic commentary from the CEO and CFO, followed by Q&A.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including statements Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; and our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as our 10-K and 10-Q reports on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
regarding
our financial performance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.  
 
 
All numbers stated herein are GAAP unless stated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between non-GAAP and GAAP, refer to the table at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
 
Q3 Fiscal 2010 Overview
 
NetApp achieved several records in the third quarter, including record revenue, record number of systems shipped, record performance from nearly every geography, record income from operations and record net income per share. Our storage efficiency solutions are driving significant demand as customers begin to refresh and re-architect their data centers. Our record performance was achieved despite supply constraints which extended lead times throughout the quarter.
 
 
Revenue
 
 
Revenue for the third quarter was $1.01 billion, up 11% sequentially and up 16% over non-GAAP revenue of $874 million in Q3 of last year. Foreign currency effects improved sequential results by 0.5 percentage points, and increased our year over year growth rate by about two percentage points.
 
Product revenue grew 18% sequentially and was up 17% year over year to $619 million. Products increased in the mix to 61% of total revenue. As we discussed on last quarters call, we will no longer break out the mix of add-on software due to the increase in our bundled product offerings which mask the distinction between software and systems. It is no longer a useful indicator, given that the metric had been trending at the lowest levels in several years, yet product margins have been at or near all-time highs. The best proxy for the impact of software on our business going forward is our product gross margins.
 
 
GAAP revenue in Q3FY09 was $746 million. Non-GAAP revenue in Q3FY09 excludes the impact of the $128 million GSA settlement.
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from software entitlements and maintenance (E&M), which is a deferred revenue element, was $171 million, or 17% of total revenue. Software E&M was up 1% sequentially and up 9% year over year. The growth in software E&M revenue will tend to track product revenue growth, albeit on a lagged basis.
 
Service revenue was $222 million and 22% of total revenue, up 3% sequentially and up 17% over Q3 of last year. Service revenues are comprised mainly of hardware maintenance support contracts and professional services.
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
 
On a non-GAAP basis, consolidated gross margin was a 64.2% of revenue this quarter, in line with the forecast we provided at the end of the second quarter. This was about three percentage points lower than Q2which we stated was unsustainably high. The decline to a more sustainable level this quarter was due to the return to more typical product margins and a modestly lower contribution from deferred elements coming off of the balance sheet. These deferred revenue elements carry a very high margin.
 
As expected, non-GAAP product gross margin was also down just over three percentage points sequentially to 59.8%. We did not expect last quarters unusually favorable configuration mix to continue into Q3, and we passed along  cost savings to customers during the quarter in order to stimulate share gains.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP service margin pulled back to 50.4% due to higher than expected commissions for professional services.
 
Non-GAAP Software E&M gross margins were up just slightly to 98.3%.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 4% sequentially and were up 13% year-over-year, totaling $479 million or 47% of revenue. These expense levels were approximately 6% above the midpoint of our forecast for the third quarter, primarily due to higher than planned accruals for commissions and incentive compensation related to outperformance on both the revenue and operating income lines. We also began selectively hiring in sales and engineering.  Headcount at the end of the quarter was 8,174  a net increase of 69 people.
 
On a GAAP basis, Q3 operating expenses include $32 million of stock compensation expense compared to $30 million in Q2, as well as amortization of intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions and the current period impact of prior restructuring actions.
 
Income from Operations & Other Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP income from operations was up 10% sequentially and 60% year over year to $171 million, or 16.9% of revenue.
 
Non-GAAP other income and expense was $0.33 million due to continued low interest rate levels.  GAAP other income / (expense) also includes $12.5 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt.
 
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $171 million, or 16.9% of revenue. Our non-GAAP provision for income tax was $27 million and our effective tax rate remains at 16%. With the increase in stock price weighing heavily on the treasury method of accounting for shares outstanding again this quarter, NetApps diluted share count increased sequentially by 10.6 million shares to 360 million shares outstanding.
 
Non-GAAP net income totaled $144 million, or $0.40 cents per share, a new record for NetApp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Balance Sheet Items
 
Q3 cash and short term investments totaled $3.2 billion. At the end of Q3, our cash and short term investments domiciled in the U.S. were 53% of this balance.
 
The total deferred revenue balance of $1.8 billion reflects a sequential increase of approximately $73 million this quarter and a 10% increase in the balance year over year.
 
With respect to DSO, accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 41 days this quarter, compared to an unusually low 32 days last quarter and 36 days in Q3 last year. Our current DSO of 41 days represents a more sustainable level.
 
Inventory turns were approximately 20 turns, up slightly from Q2, and up from 17 turns in Q3 of last year.
 
 
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter. (Calculation based on non-GAAP revenue in Q3FY09)
2
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP COGS divided by net inventory
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
 
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $195 million, down 27% sequentially, primarily due to the increase in accounts receivable this quarter. Capital expenditures were about $50 million, up from $23 million last quarter, due to the purchase of land in India.
 
Free cash flow totaled $145 million, down 22% from Q3 last year. Expressed as a percent of revenue, Q3 free cash flow was 14% of revenue, below our targeted range of 17% - 22% as a result of a large increase in accounts receivable from the record low DSO level in Q2.  Accounts receivables should remain relatively stable going forward, so free cash flow as a percent of revenue should return to our targeted range in Q4.
 
Q4 FY10 Outlook
 
 
This forecast is based on current business expectations and current market conditions, and reflects our non-GAAP presentation.
 
Other Business Metrics
 
 
 
Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment
4
 
Calculation based upon non-GAAP revenue in Q3FY09
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geographic Mix
 
The Americas contributed 57% of total revenue, Americas revenue was up 16% sequentially and up 26% year over year. Included in the Americas, the US Public Sector Team delivered 14% of total revenue, despite fiscal Q3 usually being a seasonally slower period for government purchases.
 
EMEA was up 5% sequentially and up 7% year over year to 33% of total revenue. AsiaPacific contributed 10% of revenue this quarter, up 9% sequentially and down 3% year over year.
 
Channel Mix
 
Direct revenue was 30% of total revenue, up 4% sequentially and up 15% year over year. Indirect channel contribution was 70%, up 15% sequentially and up 16% over Q3 last year. Within the indirect channel, Arrow grew to a record 16% of total revenue and Avnet contributed a record 12% of revenue. Revenue from the IBM OEM partnership was a record high, accounting for nearly 6% of total revenue and up 9% over Q3 last year.
 
Large Customer Mix
 
The top 100 accounts were somewhat more balanced in the mix this quarter, accounting for about 42% of total revenue. Within that number was a seasonal decline in government business and an increase in contribution from commercial accounts.
 
 
 
  
 
Year over year growth is calculated using non-GAAP revenue in Q3FY09
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Trends
 
Of configured system product revenue, this was our first quarter in which unified systemssystems sold with both a SAN and a NAS protocolexceeded that of NAS-only systems. 15% of our configured system product revenue included a SAN protocol this quarter, just over 42% was unified, and about 42% was NAS only. We shipped a record number of NFS and CIFS licenses in Q3, and we are now shipping FCoE targets in production quantities.
 
According to our system-reported data, in virtualized server environments we are now consistently seeing about 42% of NetApp machines are running NAS and 58% are running SAN. We are also now beginning to see HyperV environments in the customer base.
 
Platform Trends
 
Total systems shipped grew dramatically this quarter, up 54% sequentially and up 34% year over year. While unit sales of all platform levels grew both sequentially and year over year, the step-function growth came from new mid-sized enterprise (MSE) business driving huge demand for our low end systems through the channel. Sales of high-end units were also up again this quarter, growing 29% sequentially and 16% year over year, and mid-range units shipped also grew by double digits both sequentially and year over year. Low end units were up 83% sequentially and up 48% year over year.
 
Our V-Series platform, which is our controller and data management software without any disks, delivered yet another record revenue quarter, and accounted for almost 20% of the net new Storage5000 accounts added during the period. This product is designed to provide NetApp data management and storage efficiency in front of large footprints of legacy SAN products offered by our competitors. It allows customers to experience NetApp functionality without a big initial investment, and it can pay for itself almost immediately with the space reclaimed when our space efficiency technologies are enabled. In fact, we guarantee a 35% capacity savings when deployed in front of other vendors arrays. Units of V-Series shipped were up 68% year over year, and the fastest growing segments of this business are selling into EMC and HP midrange environments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capacity Trends
 
Total petabytes shipped grew 25% sequentially and 42% year over year to 326 petabytes. The mix of drive capacity also changed, with Fibre Channel dropping to 27% of total capacity shipped, ATA declining modestly to 64% of capacity shipped, and SAS tripling to 9% of capacity shipped this quarter.
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, you can find video replays of our October 8 analyst day presentations on our IR website at investors.netapp.com.
th
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
 
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. Non-GAAP results of operations exclude the GSA settlement, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, merger termination proceeds (net of related expenses), restructuring and other charges, asset impairment, noncash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net loss or gain on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. We include these non-GAAP financial measures in our earnings announcement because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making, such as employee compensation planning. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


