FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20100907165150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
          
Amendments to 1999 Stock Option Plan
     The Board of Directors of NetApp, Inc. (the "Company") previously adopted, subject to stockholder approval, an amendment to the Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "1999 Plan") to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance thereunder by 7,000,000 shares.
     The Company's stockholders approved the amendment described above at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on August 31, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting").
     The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 1999 Plan, a copy of which was previously filed as to the Company's 2010 proxy statement (the "Proxy Statement"), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on July 13, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Appendix A
          
Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     The Company's Board of Directors previously adopted, subject to stockholder approval, an amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance thereunder by 5,000,000 shares, to clarify the discretion of the Purchase Plan administrator to determine eligibility requirements, and to remove its fixed-term expiration date.
     The Company's stockholders approved the amendment described above at the Annual Meeting.
     The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Plan, a copy of which was previously filed as to the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Appendix B
          
Retirement of Named Executive Officer
On September 2, 2010, Andrew Kryder, the Company's Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary retired from the Company.
     On July 13, 2010, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's bylaws to decrease the number of authorized directors on the Board of Directors from eleven (11) to nine (9) effective as of immediately prior to the Annual Meeting. A copy of the Certificate of Amendment to the Bylaws of NetApp, Inc. is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
     On August 31, 2010, the Company held its Annual Meeting. At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company elected the following individuals to the Board of Directors. Each director will serve until the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders or until his respective successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
 
     In addition, the following proposals were voted on and approved at the Annual Meeting:
     On September 2, 2010, Matthew K. Fawcett was appointed as the Company's new Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.2
     The undersigned, Andrew Kryder, hereby certifies that he is the duly appointed, qualified, and acting Secretary, General Counsel, and Senior Vice President, Legal, of NetApp, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and that effective immediately prior to the Annual Shareholder Meeting on August 31, 2010, pursuant to Article III, Section 1 of the Bylaws of the Company, the Board of Directors (the "") of the Company amended such Bylaws as set forth below:
Company
Board
     "
Reduction in the Number of Authorized Directors
The Board deems it advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to decrease the number of authorized directors on the Board from eleven (11) to nine (9); and
WHEREAS
:
Article III, Section 1 of the Bylaws of the Company states, in relevant part:
WHEREAS
:
"The number of directors of this corporation that shall constitute the whole Board shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that no decrease in the number of directors shall have the effect of shortening the term of an incumbent director."
That the number of authorized directors on the Board be, and hereby is, decreased from eleven (11) to nine (9).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
:
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereunto set his hand this 2 day of September, 2010.
nd


