FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20100526160332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 26, 2010, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended April 30, 2010.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of operating results and net income that exclude: (a) the GSA settlement, (b) amortization of intangible assets, (c) stock-based compensation expenses, (d) acquisition related income and expenses, (e) restructuring and other charges, (f) asset impairments, (g) non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (h) net losses or gains on investments, and (i) our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate  for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year . NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A.   NetApp excludes from its revenue as well from its budgeting, planning and forecasting of future periods the impact of the settlement with the GSA because management believes that the settlement related to certain past business practices, and is not representative of NetApps on-going business and future revenue generating potential.
GSA Settlement.
B. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
C.   NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, it does not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 
 
 
 D.   NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including merger termination proceeds,  from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related (income) expenses, net.
 E. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
F. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairment.
G. .  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
H. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
(Gain) loss on investments, net.
 
I. NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of  net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate  for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year 2010, which ended April 30, 2010. Revenues for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 totaled $1.17 billion compared to revenues of $880 million for the same period one year ago.
Sunnyvale, Calif.May 26, 2010
 
For the fourth fiscal quarter, GAAP net income was $145 million, or $.40 per share compared to GAAP net income of $68 million, or $0.21 per share for the same period in the prior year. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter was $183 million, or $0.50 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $103 million, or $0.31 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
For fiscal year 2010, GAAP and non-GAAP revenues totaled $3.93 billion, an increase of 15% compared to GAAP revenues of $3.41 billion and an increase of 11% compared to non-GAAP revenue of $3.54 billion for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, GAAP net income was $400 million, or $1.13 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $65 million, or $0.19 per share for fiscal year 2009. Non-GAAP net income for fiscal year 2010 was $533 million, or $1.51 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $364 million, or $1.09 per share for fiscal year 2009.
 
 
 
 
With 50% growth in product revenue this quarter, NetApp significantly outperformed the competition. With accelerating revenue growth every quarter, we culminated our fiscal year with record levels of revenue, earnings per share, and free cash flow, said Tom Georgens, president & CEO.  The server virtualization and cloud computing trends are driving significant business for us, as our competitive advantages in those areas lead more customers to choose NetApp storage efficiency solutions for larger and larger data center projects.
Outlook
 
 
 
 
Business Highlights
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, NetApp expanded key partnerships and introduced new solutions to enable customers virtualization and cloud-based infrastructures, as well as help service providers deliver compelling services for enterprise information technology. NetApp also reached several significant milestones during the quarter related to the adoption and deployment of its storage solutions. In addition, several new customer deployments demonstrated how NetApp technologies can help customers reach never-before-seen levels of efficiency. Key business highlights included the following.
cloud
storage efficiency
New Solutions and Expanded Partnerships
 
 
 
Milestones and Awards
Mergers and Acquisitions
Businesses Built on NetApp
 
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp fourth quarter and fiscal year 2010 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, May 26, 2010, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will also be available after 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time on our web site at .
http://investors.netapp.com
http://investors.netapp.com
NetApp is now using a new hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp will post and distribute a separate document with financial commentary and statistics that were previously disclosed during our earnings calls. These prepared remarks will be available prior to the conference call in order to provide the investment community with additional time to analyze our results. This commentary will not be read during the earnings call.
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that accelerate business breakthroughs and deliver outstanding cost efficiency. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, our expectations regarding our current and new partnerships and strategic alliances and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and those from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in network storage market; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted 10-K and 10-Q. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and SANscreen are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. VMware is a registered trademark and vSphere is a trademark of VMware, Inc. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP results of operations exclude the GSA settlement, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.  We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. In addition, we have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
NetApp Q4 and FY10 Earnings Results
 
 
Supplemental Commentary
May 26, 2010
The information in this written commentary, which was historically presented during our live conference call, is now being provided to the investment community concurrently with our press release to allow for additional time for review and analysis prior to commencement of the live call. Please note that these prepared remarks will not be read during the call. The live call will focus on strategic commentary from the CEO and CFO, followed by Q&A.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including statements Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; and our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as in our 10-K and 10-Q reports on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
regarding
our financial performance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
 
All numbers stated herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless stated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between our non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the table at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2010 Highlights
 
In fiscal 2010, NetApp achieved company records in several categories, including revenue, income from operations, and net income per share.
 
Year over Year Overview
 
 
 
Fiscal year 2010 revenue was $3.93 billion, an 11% increase over FY2009 net revenue. Non-GAAP gross margins were 65%, up from 61.1% in FY 2009, due to a favorable revenue mix as well as favorable trends in materials cost for low-end and mid-range systems.  Non-GAAP operating expenses were up 10% year over year.  We returned to our targeted non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 16%, up from our FY2009 operating margin of 11.6%. These improvements in profitability are reflected in our non-GAAP net income per share, which rose 39% from $1.09 in FY 2009 to $1.51 in FY2010.
 
 
GAAP revenue in FY2009 was $3,406 million, Non-GAAP revenue in FY2009 excludes the impact of the $129 million GSA settlement
1
 
 
 
 
Q4 Fiscal 2010 Overview
 
In the fourth quarter, NetApp achieved record performance in revenue, income from operations, net income per share, deferred revenue, cash flow from operations, and units shipped.  As customers increasingly turn to server virtualization and the benefits of cloud computing to reduce IT costs, they are choosing NetApp for the storage efficiency and flexibility we provide as they begin to re-architect their data centers for a virtual future.
 
 
 Revenue
 
 
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.17 billion, increasing 16% sequentially and 33% year over year. Foreign currency effects decreased our sequential results by approximately one percentage point and increased our year over year growth rate by approximately two percentage points.
3
 
 
Sequential growth calculation based upon Q3FY10 results, which can be found at www.investor.netapp.com
2
 
Foreign currency effects represent the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the comparative prior periods (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period actual net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities.
3
 
 
 
Product revenue grew 23% sequentially and increased 50% year over year to $759 million. The product component of our revenue mix increased to 65% of total revenue, up strongly from 61% last quarter.
 
Revenue from software entitlements and maintenance (SEM), which is a deferred revenue element and is recognized ratably over the related contract period, was $174 million, or 15% of total revenue. SEM was up 2% sequentially and up 6% year over year, reflecting the slower business growth rates of prior periods.  Product revenue growth can be viewed as a leading indicator for future SEM revenue growth.  The average contract life on the balance sheet for SEM is approximately 32 months.
 
Service revenue was $239 million, up 8% sequentially and up 14% over 2009 Q4 revenue. Service revenue represented 20% of total revenue and is comprised mainly of hardware maintenance support contracts and professional services.
 
 
 
 Gross Margin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On a non-GAAP basis, consolidated gross margin was 64.6% of revenue this quarter, a slight increase from Q3 results. There were no significant changes in non-GAAP product or SEM gross margins from the prior quarter. Non-GAAP service margin increased five percentage points sequentially to 55.8%, due primarily to a seasonal increase in professional services work completed.
 
 Operating Expenses
 
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 13% sequentially and were up 27% year over year, totaling $541 million or 46% of revenue in Q4. Headcount increased by a net of 159 people to 8,333 at the end of the quarter, consistent with our plan to increase our sales and engineering staff worldwide.
 
On a GAAP basis, Q4 operating expenses include $33 million of stock compensation compared to $32 million in Q3, as well as amortization of intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions, current period impact of prior restructuring actions and acquisition related expenses.
 
 Income from Operations & Other Income
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP income from operations was up 27% sequentially and 84% year over year to $217 million, or 18.5% of revenue, significantly outpacing our target operating margin of approximately 16%.
 
Non-GAAP other income and expense increased to $3 million, primarily due to realized gains on investments as well as a shift toward longer-term investment vehicles.  GAAP other income (expense) also includes $13 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt.
 
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $220 million or 18.7% of revenue, up from 16.9% in Q3. Our non-GAAP provision for income tax was $36 million, up from $27 million in Q3, and our effective tax rate increased to 16.6% from our average of 16% in prior quarters due to a year-end true-up.  As a result, our non-GAAP effective tax rate for FY2010 was 16.2%. Our diluted share count increased sequentially by 4.2 million shares to 365 million shares outstanding.
 
Non-GAAP net income totaled $183 million, or $0.50 per share, another record for NetApp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Select Balance Sheet Items
 
During Q4, our cash and short term investments grew by $491 million, ending the quarter at $3.7 billion, up 15% sequentially and up 43% year over year.  Of this Q4 FY10 balance, 56% was in the United States.
 
The total deferred revenue balance of $1.9 billion reflects a sequential increase of approximately $120 million this quarter and a 12% increase in the balance year over year.
 
With respect to DSO, accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 37 days this quarter, compared to 41 days last quarter and 46 days in Q4 last year.  The strong DSO performance is attributable to record collection efforts on the part of our accounts receivables team. At the end of Q4, 93% of our receivables balance was current. Inventory turns were down from 20.2 turns in Q3 to 14.7 turns, a side effect of the rapid growth we are experiencing and the  unpredictable spot shortages of some parts.
 
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter.
4
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP COGS divided by net inventory
5
 
 
 
 
 
 Select Cash Flow Statement Items
 
 
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $475 million, more than doubling both sequentially and year over year, primarily due to strong growth in net income, increased deferred revenue, and well managed receivables.  Capital expenditures were about $38 million, down from $50 million last quarter.
 
Free cash flow totaled $436 million, over three times higher than Q3 levels. Expressed as a percent of revenue, Q4 free cash flow was 37% of net revenue, well above our average range.
 
 Q1 FY11 Outlook
 
This forecast is based on current business expectations and current market conditions.
 
Other Business Metrics
 
 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash purchases of property and equipment
6
 
 
 
 Geographic Mix
 
The Americas generated revenue of $639 million, up 11% sequentially and up 34% year over year, contributing 54% of total revenue. Included in the Americas numbers, the US Public Sector Team delivered 11% of total revenue, which was seasonally down by approximately 7% sequentially, though up 30% year over year.
 
EMEA revenue increased 24% sequentially and 32% year over year to $419 million, comprising 36% of total revenue. AsiaPacific revenue was $113 million, an increase of 14% sequentially and 31% year over year, for a total of 10% of revenue this quarter.
 
Channel Mix
 
Both our direct and indirect channels posted increases in revenue during the fourth quarter. Consistent with our strategy, our indirect channel continues to grow faster than our direct channel.  Direct revenue was 29% of total revenue, increasing 10% sequentially and 19% year over year.  Indirect revenues, generated by channel and OEM partners, contributed 71% of total revenues in the quarter.  Indirect revenues increased 19% sequentially and 40% over Q4 last year.  Within the indirect channel, Arrow continued last quarters record pace of 16% of total revenue, while Avnet was down slightly to 11% of revenue from last quarters record of 12% of revenue. Revenue from the IBM OEM partnership was 3% of total revenue, up 2% over their absolute dollar contribution in Q4 last year.
 
Customer Dynamics
 
 
 
 
This quarters top 100 accounts contributed approximately 42% of total Q4 revenue, about the same level as in Q3FY10.  In FY10 we added 121 net new Storage5000 accounts, down modestly from the record high number added in FY09.
7
 
 Protocol Trends
 
For over eight years, NetApp has been shipping storage systems which support multiple protocols concurrently on every systema capability called Unified Storage. We have shipped over 150,000 Unified Storage systems since we pioneered this innovation in 2002. This quarter the unified storage percentage of our configured system product revenue continued at record levels.
 
We continue to actively bundle and sell more of our systems in a Unified configuration. In addition, since all of our systems enable the use of multiple protocols for applications, we have found that our installed base usage profilesespecially for protocols frequently changes after installation, while the system configuration sold does not.  As a result, we have come to the conclusion that trying to partition our revenues across the traditional NAS and SAN categories at time of shipment it is no longer meaningful, therefore this will be the last quarter in which we provide the data in the chart above.
 
Platform Trends
 
Total system units shipped grew 10% sequentially again this quarter and also increased 52% over Q4 last year. The standout growth segment this quarter was our mid-range, which grew 36% sequentially and 40% year over year.  Sales of high-end units were also up strongly this quarter, growing 27% sequentially and 48% year over year.  While low end units were down modestly from last quarters record levels, they were up 61% over Q4 of last year.
 
 
The Storage 5000 is a proprietary NetApp list of companies we believe to be the 5,000 largest buyers of storage worldwide
7
 
 
 
Our V-Series platform, which is our controller and data management software without any disks, reached a milestone 5,000 units shipped since inception this quarter. Units of V-Series shipped were up 80% sequentially and over 230% higher year over year.
 
 Capacity Trends
 
 
Total petabytes shipped grew 37% sequentially and 82% year over year to 445 petabytes. The mix of drive capacity continued to trend toward SAS and ATA, with ATA remaining by far the largest segment as customers utilize our efficiency features to get more out of our storage on less expensive drives.
 
 
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at www.netapp.com.
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
 
 
 
 
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. Non-GAAP operating results and net income exclude the GSA settlement, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rates for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP provision for the fourth quarter. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


