FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20101117153409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
  
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 17, 2010, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the second quarter and first six months ended October 29, 2010.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP operating results and net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of net income that exclude: (a) amortization of intangible assets, (b) stock-based compensation expenses, (c) acquisition related income and expenses, (d) restructuring and other charges, (e) asset impairments, (f) non-cash interest expense associated with our co nvertible debt, (g) net losses or gains on investments, and (h) our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
B.  NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, it does not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 C.  NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including merger termination proceeds, from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related income and expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 D. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
E. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairments.
F..  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
G. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
Net losses or gains.
 
H. NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision from its non-GAAP measure of  net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate  for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accoun ting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release
 
NETAPP ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR SECOND QUARTER FISCAL YEAR 2011
 
Company Reports Record Q2 FY11 Revenues of $1.207 Billion, Up 33% Year over Year
Sunnyvale, Calif.November 17, 2010NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended October 29, 2010. Revenues for the second fiscal quarter of 2011 totaled $1.207 billion compared to revenues of $910 million for the same period a year ago, an increase of 33% year over year.
For the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, GAAP net income was $165 million or $0.42 per sharecompared to GAAP net income of $96 million, or $0.27 per share for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $203 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $130 million, or $0.37 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
Revenues for the first six months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $2.345 billion compared to revenues of $1.748 billion for the first six months of the prior fiscal year, an increase of 34% year over year.
GAAP net income for the first six months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $306 million, or $0.80 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $147 million, or $0.43 per share for the first six months of the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP net income for the first six months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $385 million, or $1.01 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $206 million, or $0.60 per share for the first six months of the prior fiscal year.
NetApp produced 49% year over year growth in product revenue and our highest non-GAAP operating margin in over a decade, while simultaneously investing aggressively in our future, said Tom Georgens, president and CEO of NetApp. Last week, the NetApp team delivered the most comprehensive product launch in our history. By offering customers a more flexible and efficient alternative to traditional storage, NetApp further strengthened our leadership position as the platform of choice for the next generation of IT infrastructure.
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Business Highlights
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp introduced new solutions and expanded support and integration with key partners such as VMware to help customers accelerate their move to a more integrated, efficient, and flexible shared IT infrastructure. In addition, NetApp achieved several milestones and was honored as a best place to work and one of the most trusted and strategic IT vendors in the industry. Key business highlights included the following:
NetApp and Partners Deliver Flexible and Efficient IT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Milestones and Awards
 
 
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp second quarter fiscal year 2011 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at http://investors.netapp.com on Wednesday, November 17, 2010, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will also be available after 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time on our Web site.
 
 
 
 
 
NetApp uses a hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp will post and distribute a separate document with financial commentary and statistics. These prepared remarks will be available prior to the conference call in order to provide the investment community with additional time to analyze our results. This commentary will not be read during the earnings call.
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency and accelerate business breakthroughs. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at www.netapp.com.
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, expectations regarding current and new partnerships and strategic alliances, and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services including our recently announc ed new product introductions; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in networked storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted 10-K and 10-Q. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and Data ONTAP are trademarks in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press Contact:                                     
Ryan Lowry                                          
NetApp                                                
(408) 822-7544                                       
                               
ryanl@netapp.com
 
Investor Contacts:
Shauna OBoyle
NetApp
(408) 822-7655
oboyle@netapp.com
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.2  Supplemental Commentary
 
 
 
This supplemental commentary is being provided concurrently with our earnings press release to allow for additional time for review and analysis prior to commencement of the companys earnings call. These prepared remarks will not be read during the live call. The call will focus on strategic commentary from the CEO and CFO, followed by a question and answer session.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including the statements under the Q3 FY11 outlook section Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services, including our recently announced new product introduction; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; and our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as in our 10-K and 10-Q reports on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
regarding
our forecasted financial performance and share count for the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
 
 
All numbers herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless indicated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between our non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the tables at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
 
 
Q2 Fiscal 2011 Overview
 
For the second quarter of our fiscal year, we are pleased to post another quarter of strong financial performance with notable achievements in the areas of product revenue growth, profitability and cash generation. This quarter marks the third consecutive quarter of approximately 50% product revenue growth and above 30% company net revenue growth on a year over year basis. Along with the substantial revenue growth, our profitability was the highest in over a decade with non-GAAP income from operations of 19.8% of revenue. After another strong cash generation quarter, NetApp crossed the $4 billion mark in cash, cash equivalents and investments on the balance sheet.
 
Revenue
 
Net revenue for the second quarter was $1.2 billion, an increase of 6% sequentially and an increase of 33% year over year.
 
Foreign currency fluctuations had an immaterial impact on sequential growth and a negative impact of approximately 1% on year over year growth.
2
 
Aided by a strong showing in the US public sector, product revenue grew 8% sequentially to $780 million, an increase of 49% year over year. The revenue mix between product, software entitlements and maintenance (SEM) and service remained approximately the same in the second quarter as the first quarter.
 
Revenue from SEM, which is a deferred revenue element and is recognized over the related contract period, was $178 million or 15% of total revenue.SEM revenue grew 2% sequentially and increased 5% year over year
 
.
 
Service revenue was $249 million, an increase of 3% sequentially and 16% year over year. The majority of service revenue is derived from hardware maintenance support contracts and professional services.
 
 
Sequential growth calculation based upon Q1FY11 results, which can be found at www.investor.netapp.com
1
 
Foreign currency effects represent the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the comparative prior periods (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period actual net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
 
On a non-GAAP basis, consolidated gross margin was 66.9% of revenue this quarter, due in large part to higher product gross margins. Product gross margins increased 4.5 percentage points from Q1 levels to 62.6% of revenue in Q2. SEM gross margins were flat sequentially and service gross margins declined to 58.5% of revenue in Q2.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $569 million, an increase of 10% from the prior quarter and an increase of 24% year over year. Q2 operating expenses were 47% of revenue and comparable to Q1 levels.
 
Our global headcount increased to 9,343 people at the end of Q2, a net increase of 370 people over Q1. Similar to the prior quarter, the majority of these new hires were in engineering and sales.
 
On a GAAP basis, Q2 operating expenses included stock compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets. Stock compensation expense was $34 million, down from $40 million in Q1.
Income from Operations, Other Income & Effective Tax Rate
 
In Q2 non-GAAP income from operations increased 12% sequentially and increased 55% year over year to $240 million, or 19.8% of revenue.
 
Non-GAAP other income, net was $3 million for Q2. GAAP other expense, net includes approximately $13 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, the same as last quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $242 million or 20.1% of revenue, up from 19.2% of revenue in the prior quarter. Our non-GAAP provision for income taxes was $39 million, up from $36 million in Q1 and our non-GAAP effective tax rate remained at 16.3%.
 
Net Income
 
Non-GAAP net income totaled $203 million, or $0.52 per share. GAAP net income totaled $165 million, or $0.42 per share.
Impact of Convertible Note Transaction on Share Count
 
Our Q2 dilutive share count was approximately 392 million, significantly higher than projected due to the impact of the convertible notes and warrants, which were issued in June, 2008. The notes will have a dilutive impact on our share count whenever our average quarterly stock price is above the notes $31.85 conversion price. We expect the dilutive effect from the notes will ultimately be 80% hedged, though that hedge will not be reflected until the notes are converted or mature as it is considered anti-dilutive under GAAP.  In Q2 the offset from the hedge would have reduced dilutive share count by approximately 10 million shares if the notes had been converted during the quarter.
 
The warrants become dilutive whenever the quarterly average stock price is above $41.28. The dilutive effect of the warrants is not hedged.  Since our average stock price was $46.28 in Q2, both the notes and the warrants were dilutive to share count. Until the notes are converted, or until they mature in June, 2013, whenever the average quarterly price of our stock is above $31.85, the impact of the notes will be reflected in our dilutive share count without the benefit of the offsetting hedge, and whenever the average quarterly price of our stock is above $41.28, the impact of the warrants will be reflected in our dilutive share count.
 
80% hedged on maturity or conversion of the convertible notes.
3
 
 
 
 
 
Select Balance Sheet Items
 
During Q2, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments grew by $461 million, ending the quarter at $4.4 billion, up 12% sequentially and 47% year over year. 57% of this cash balance was held in the United States.
 
The total deferred revenue balance of $2 billion increased 3% sequentially and 16% year over year.
 
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO) increased in the second quarter to 34 days, up from 30 days in the first quarter. Inventory turns continue to improve from 18.8 turns in Q2, up from 17.9 turns in Q1.
 
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $365 million, more than double Q1 and up 37% year over year. Capital expenditures were $43 million, an increase of $3 million from Q1. Free cash flow totaled $321 million, increasing 134% sequentially and up 31% year over year. Q2 free cash flow represented 27% of total revenue.
 
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter.
4
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP COGS divided by net inventory.
5
 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash purchases of property and equipment.
6
 
 
 
 
Q3 FY11 Outlook
 
This forecast is based on current business expectations and current market conditions. Dilutive share count includes the impact of our convertible note and warrants, based upon our average stock price of $54.97 for the first 10 days of our third We share count for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 will increase to approximately 408 million shares, including an estimated 16.9 million shares from the Companys outstanding convertible notes and 9.9 million shares from outstanding warrants. Share count does not include the Companys outstanding note hedges that are expected to offset 80% of the dilution from the convertible notes at maturity or conversion, which would equate to an offset of approximate ly 13.5 million shares if the conversion or maturity occurs in the third quarter.
quarter.
estimate
Other Business Metrics
 
Geographic Mix
 
The Americas generated $741 million, 61% of total revenue in Q2, an increase of 17% sequentially and an increase of 45% year over year. The U.S. Public sector, which is included in Americas number, contributed $239 million or 20% of total revenue, an increase of 49% from Q1 and 59% year over year.
 
In the second quarter, EMEA generated $350 million or 29% of total revenue, down 9% sequentially, but up 14% on a year over year basis.
 
AsiaPacific revenue was $116 million, a decrease of 3% sequentially but an increase of 25% year over year, and represented 10% of total revenue in Q2.
 
 
 
 
 
Channel Mix
 
In the second quarter, direct revenue was 28% of total revenues and declined 5% sequentially while increasing 14% year over year. Consistent with our business model, our indirect channel accounted for the bulk of our revenues at 72% of total revenues in Q2, representing a growth rate of 11% sequentially and 42% year over year. Within the indirect channel, Arrow was 18% of revenue, up from 16% of revenue last quarter and Avnet was 15% of revenue, up from 11% of revenue last quarter. Revenue from our IBM OEM partnership was 3% of revenue, down from 4% in Q1, but up in absolute dollars year over year.
 
Platform Trends
 
In Q2 total system units shipped increased 4% sequentially in Q2 and grew 77% year over year. Medium-sized system units increased 13% sequentially and 52% year over year. Small-sized system units doubled year over year and were up 1% sequentially. Large system units declined 23% sequentially, but grew 25% year over year.
 
Units of the V-series platform increased 35% sequentially and 92% year over year.
Capacity Trends
 
In Q2, total petabytes shipped grew to 523 petabytes, an increase of 11% sequentially and 101% year over year. The growing popularity of ATA and SAS drives is clearly visible in the table above.
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at www.netapp.com.
 
 
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors& #8217; understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 


