FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20100818160550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 18, 2010, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the first quarter ended July 30, 2010.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP operating results and net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of net income that exclude: (a) amortization of intangible assets, (b) stock-based compensation expenses, (c) acquisition related income and expenses, (d) restructuring and other charges, (e) asset impairments, (f) non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (g) net losses or gains on investments, and (h) our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
B.   NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, it does not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 C.   NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including merger termination proceeds, from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related income and expense.
 
 
 
 D. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
E. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairments.
F. .  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
G. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
Net
losses or gains.
 
H. NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision from its non-GAAP measure of  net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate  for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects.
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Press Contact:                                      Investor Contacts:
Ryan Lowry                                           Shauna OBoyle
NetApp                                                  NetApp
(408) 822-7544                                      (408) 822-7655
                              
ryanl@netapp.com
oboyle@netapp.com
 
NETAPP ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FIRST QUARTER FISCAL YEAR 2011
Record Q1; Company Records Q1 FY11 Revenues of $1.14 Billion, Up 36% Year Over Year
NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended July 30, 2010. Revenues for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 totaled $1.14 billion compared to revenues of $838 million for the same period a year ago.
Sunnyvale, Calif.August 18, 2010
For the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2011, GAAP net income was $142 million or $0.38 per sharecompared to GAAP net income of $52 million, or $0.15 per share for the same period in the prior year. Non-GAAP net income for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $183 million, or $0.49 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $76 million, or $0.22 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
With total revenue growth for the quarter of 36% and product revenue growth of 51% year over year, NetApp has begun our fiscal year with great momentum, said Tom Georgens, president and CEO. The NetApp value proposition allows customers to implement more flexible and efficient storage infrastructures at a lower cost. Our results indicate we are achieving clear customer preference as IT organizations transform their data centers.
 
 
 
Outlook
Business Highlights
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp expanded its strategic relationships with Microsoft and other partners to help customers and service providers make the transition to a cloud computing environment. NetApp, VMware, and Cisco also strengthened their trilateral collaboration by unveiling new solutions to increase data center efficiencies for customers. In addition, NetApp achieved several milestones and earned several awards during the quarter related to customer adoption of key technologies and its unique corporate culture. Key business highlights included the following:
NetApp Strengthens Relationship with Microsoft
 
 
 
 
NetApp and Partners Enable Flexible IT
Milestones and Awards
 
 
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp first quarter fiscal year 2011 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, August 18, 2010, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will also be available after 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time on our Web site.
http://investors.netapp.com
NetApp now uses a new hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp will post and distribute a separate document with financial commentary and statistics that was previously disclosed during our earnings calls. These prepared remarks will be available prior to the conference call in order to provide the investment community with additional time to analyze our results. This commentary will not be read during the earnings call.
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency and accelerate business breakthroughs. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, our expectations regarding our current and new partnerships and strategic alliances, and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and those from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in network storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted 10-K and 10-Q. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and SnapManager are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc. Microsoft and SharePoint are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
 
 
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
This supplemental commentary is being provided concurrently with our earnings press release to allow for additional time for review and analysis prior to commencement of the companys earnings call. These prepared remarks will not be read during the live call. The call will focus on strategic commentary from the CEO and CFO, followed by a question and answer session.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including the statements under the Q2 FY11 outlook section regarding our forecasted financial performance and share count for the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; and our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as in our 10-K and 10-Q reports on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
 
All numbers herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless indicated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between our non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the table at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
 
Q1 Fiscal 2011 Overview
 
Fiscal year 2011 is off to a good start for NetApp. With a 51% year over year increase in product revenue and higher than expected profitability, this is the strongest first quarter in our history. The strength of our business is evident in many aspects, with year over year increases in revenue across all geographies, greater contributions from channel partners and strong cash generation.
 
 
Revenue
 
 
Net revenue for the first quarter was $1.14 billion, a decrease of 3% sequentially and an increase of 36% year over year. Foreign currency effects decreased our sequential results by approximately one percentage point and had an immaterial effect on our year over year revenue growth rate.
2
 
Product revenue declined 5% sequentially to $721 million and increased 51% year over year. This is the second consecutive quarter of at least 50% year over year product revenue growth. The product component of revenue decreased slightly as part of the overall revenue mix to 63% of total revenue, from 65% last quarter.
 
 
Sequential growth calculation based upon Q4FY10 results, which can be found at www.investor.netapp.com
1
 
Foreign currency effects represent the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the comparative prior periods (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period actual net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities.
2
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from software entitlements and maintenance (SEM), which is a deferred revenue element and is recognized over the related contract period, was $175 million or 15% of total revenue.SEM revenue was flat sequentially and increased 6% year over year
 
.
 
Service revenue was $242 million, an increase of 1% sequentially and 25% year over year.Service revenue was up slightly from last quarter to 21% of total revenue and is comprised mainly of hardware maintenance support contracts and professional services.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
 
On a non-GAAP basis, consolidated gross margin was 64.5% of revenue for the first quarter, a slight decrease from the prior quarter with lower product gross margins partially offset by higher service gross margins
.
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $519 million, a decrease of 4% sequentially and an increase of 17% year over year. Q1 operating expenses remained at 46% of revenue, similar to Q4.
 
In keeping with our plan to grow our sales and engineering staff worldwide, our headcount increased by 640 people from Q4, ending Q1 with 8,973 employees. Approximately 200 of the increase came from a combination of employees from the Bycast acquisition and new college hires.
 
On a GAAP basis, Q1 operating expenses include stock compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets. Stock compensation was $40 million in Q1 compared to $33 million in Q4, due in large part to higher valuation of employee equity awards.  
Income from Operations & Other Income
 
Non-GAAP income from operations decreased 1% sequentially and increased 141% year over year to $214 million, or 18.9% of revenue.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP other income and expense, net was $4 million. GAAP other income and expense, net includes approximately $13 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt.
 
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $218 million or 19.2% of revenue, up from 18.7% in Q4. Our non-GAAP provision for income taxes was $36 million, similar to Q4 levels, and our effective tax rate was 16.3%. Diluted share count was 374 million shares, approximately 4 million shares higher than we had projected, due primarily to significantly more option exercises in the quarter than expected.
 
Non-GAAP net income totaled $183 million, or $0.49 per share. GAAP net income totaled $142 million, or $0.38 per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Balance Sheet Items
 
During Q1, our cash and short term investments grew by $197 million, ending the quarter at $3.9 billion, up 5% sequentially and 47% year over year. Of this cash balance, 55% was held in the United States. The total deferred revenue balance of $1.9 billion increased 2% sequentially and 14% year over year.
 
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO) declined in the first quarter to 30 days compared to 37 days in fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Inventory turns improved from 14.7 turns in Q4 to 17.9 turns in Q1 as component supplies became more in balance with demand.
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $177 million, a decrease of 63% from Q4 and an increase of 364% year over year. The decrease in cash provided by operations is mainly attributable to payouts to our employees related to last years variable and incentive compensation plans. Capital expenditures were $40 million, an increase of $2 million from Q4. Free cash flow totaled $137 million, down 69% from Q4 but up 916% year over year. Q1 free cash flow represented 12% of total revenue.
 
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter.
3
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP COGS divided by net inventory.
4
 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash purchases of property and equipment.  
5
 
Q2 FY11 Outlook
 
This forecast is based on current business expectations and current market conditions.
 
 
 
Other Business Metrics
 
Geographic Mix
 
The Americas generated $634 million in revenue, down 1% sequentially and up 31% year over year, contributing 56% of total revenue. The US Public Sector, which is included in the Americas number, accounted for 14% of total revenue, an increase of 21% from Q4 and 45% year over year.
 
EMEA revenue declined 9% sequentially but increased 44% year over year to $383 million, comprising 34% of total revenue. AsiaPacific revenue was $121 million, an increase of 6% sequentially and 37% year over year, for a total of 11% of revenue this quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Channel Mix
 
Direct revenue was 31% of total revenue in Q1, increasing 5% sequentially and 37% year over year. Our indirect channel accounted for 69% of total revenue in Q1. Indirect revenues decreased 6% sequentially, but increased 35% over Q1 last year. Within the indirect channel, Arrow was 16% of Q1 revenue and Avnet was 11% of Q1 revenue; similar to Q4 percentages. Revenue from our IBM OEM partnership was 4% of revenue in Q1, up from 3% in Q4.
 
 
Platform Trends
 
Total system units shipped grew 1% sequentially this quarter and increased 78% year over year. Unit growth was driven primarily by small systems, with a 12% sequential increase and 107% increase from Q1 last year. Units of large systems were flat sequentially but grew 102% year over year. Units of medium-sized systems declined 16% in the first quarter although they grew 37% year over year.
 
Following robust shipments in Q4, units of the V-series platform declined 38% in Q1 and increased 42% year over year.
 
Capacity Trends
 
Total petabytes shipped grew 6% sequentially and 88% year over year to 470 petabytes. ATA and SAS drives continue to increase in the mix.
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at www.netapp.com.
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
GAAP to NON-GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


