FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20110525160202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
  
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 25, 2011, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended April 29, 2011.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP operating results and net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of net income that exclude: (a) amortization of intangible assets, (b) stock-based compensation expenses, (c) acquisition related income and expenses, (d) restructuring and other charges, (e) asset impairments, (f) non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (g) net losses or gains on investments, and (h) our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
B.  NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, we do not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 C.  NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including (a) merger termination proceeds, (b) due diligence, legal and other one-time integration charges, and (c) the impact of inventory step-ups, from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business or cost base and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related income and expense.
  
 D. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
E. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired, or assets from acquisitions that NetApp does not intend to use in its ongoing business. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairments.
F..  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
G. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
Net losses or gains.
 
 
 
 
 
H. . NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of  net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, and ASU No. 2009-14 related to revenue recognition for transactions originating or materially modified in fiscal year 2011. These accounting standards generally result in earlier revenue recognition than under previous standards for certain deliverables in multiple-element arrangements. We implemented these standards retrospectively to the beginning of fiscal year 2011; therefore, the full year and previously reported quarterly results for fiscal year 2011 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of these new standards.
 
 
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1 PRESS RELEASE
 
 
NETAPP ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FOURTH QUARTER AND FISCAL YEAR 2011
 
Company Reports Q4 FY11 Revenues of $1.428 Billion; Fiscal Year Revenues of $5.123 Billion
NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011, which ended April 29, 2011. Revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 totaled $1.428 billion compared to revenues of $1.172 billion for the same period one year ago.
Sunnyvale, Calif.May 25, 2011
For the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, GAAP net income was $160.6 million, or $0.40 per share compared to GAAP net income of $145.1 million, or $0.40 per share for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $236.7 million, or $0.59 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $183.1 million, or $0.50 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
Revenues for fiscal year 2011 totaled $5.123 billion compared to revenues of $3.931 billion for fiscal year 2010. GAAP net income for fiscal year 2011 was $673.1 million, or $1.71 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $400.4 million, or $1.13 per share for fiscal year 2010. Non-GAAP net income for fiscal year 2011 totaled $865.7 million, or $2.20 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $533.0 million, or $1.51 per share for fiscal year 2010.
NetApp delivered 30% revenue growth, 38% growth in cash from operations and over $1B in non-GAAP operating profit during fiscal 2011. We achieved the largest market share gains in our history and closed a record number of million dollar deals, demonstrating our momentum in the market as enterprise customers increasingly choose NetApp as their vendor of choice for storage virtualization and cloud deployments, said Tom Georgens, president and CEO. Together with our partners we create unmatched IT efficiency and flexibility with innovative solutions that solve the biggest and hardest problems in accessing and protecting business-critical information.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp adopted mandatory new accounting standards related to revenue recognition for transactions originating or materially modified in fiscal year 2011. We implemented these standards retrospectively to the beginning of fiscal year 2011; therefore the full year and previously reported quarterly results for fiscal 2011 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of these new standards. An analysis of the impact of the new accounting standards can be found on page 3 of the Supplemental Commentary and the adjusted Statements of Operations for prior quarters can be found on page 14 of the Supplemental Commentary and on our website at .
investors.netapp.com
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Business Highlights
In its fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp continued to demonstrate itscommitment to providing customers and partners with the solutions and technologies that are foundational to their success. During the quarter, NetApp entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the Engenio external storage systems business from LSI Corporation to enable NetApp to expand its addressable market and generate greaterrevenue growth with a strategic storage platform intended to capitalize on new high-growth opportunities for big-bandwidth and high-performance applications. Additionally, NetApp continues to enable enterprises to make the transition to a flexible and shared IT infrastructure and once again received numerous awards honoring its product innovation, executive leadership, and culture. Highlights included the following:
 
 
 
NetApp to Address Emerging, Fast-Growing Market Segments for Big-Bandwidth and High-Performance Applications
NetApp Enables Transition to a Shared IT Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
Milestones and Awards
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, May 25, 2011, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will be available after 4:00 p.m. Pacific time on our Web site.
http://investors.netapp.com
NetApp uses a hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp posts a supplemental commentary with financial information and statistics to our Web site at .
investors.netapp.com
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency and accelerate business breakthroughs. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, as well as expectations regarding our recent acquisition of the Engenio external storage systems business, our partnerships and strategic alliances, and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services; our ability to effectively integrate the recently acquired Engenio external storage systems business and achieve our anticipated results for such business; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in networked storage market; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; general economic and market conditions, including our stock price; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted Annual and Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, and Data ONTAP are trademarks of NetApp, Inc. All other marks are the property of their respective owners and should be treated as such.
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp adopted  Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, and ASU No. 2009-14 related to revenue recognition for transactions originating or materially modified in fiscal year 2011. We implemented these standards retrospectively to the beginning of fiscal year 2011; therefore the full year and previously reported fiscal 2011 quarterly results have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of these new standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press Contact:
Ryan Lowry
NetApp
(408) 822-7544
ryanl@netapp.com
 
Investor Contacts:
Shauna O'Boyle
NetApp
(408) 822-7655
oboyle@netapp.com
 

 
Exhibit 99.2 SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTARY
 
 
 
NetApp Q4 and FY2011 Earnings Results
 
Supplemental Commentary
May 25, 2011
This supplemental commentary is provided concurrently with our earnings press release to allow for additional time to review and analyze additional supplemental data prior to commencement of the companys earnings call. This information will not be read during the live call.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including the statements under the Q1 FY12 outlook section Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our statements or projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services; our ability to effectively integrate the recently acquired Engenio external storage systems business and achieve our anticipated results for such business; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and services; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; general economic and market conditions, including our stock price; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; and our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as in our Annual and Quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively, on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
regarding
our forecasted financial performance and share count for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
 
All numbers herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless indicated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between our non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the tables at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards Related to Revenue Recognition
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp adopted mandatory new accounting standards related to revenue recognition for transactions originating or materially modified in fiscal year 2011. This accounting convention affects the way certain deliverables in multiple-element arrangements are recognized from a revenue perspective. We implemented these standards retrospectively to the beginning of fiscal year 2011; therefore the full year and previously reported quarterly results for fiscal 2011 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of these new standards.
 
 
 
 
All fiscal year 2011 disclosures (both full year and quarterly) reflect the adoption of the new accounting standards. Fiscal year 2010 numbers have not been adjusted. Year over year comparisons reflect the new accounting standards for fiscal year 2011 results and the prior standards for fiscal year 2010 results.
Year over Year Overview
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
Fiscal year 2011 net revenue was $5.12 billion, an increase of 30% over fiscal year 2010.  Non-GAAP gross margins were 65.6% and reflect incremental improvement over last years results.
Revenue growth of 30% year over year outpaced growth in operating expenses and non-GAAP operating margin was 20% for fiscal year 2011. Profitability gains are reflected in the 46% year over year increase in non-GAAP net income per share.
 
The table below provides a summary of the impact from adopting the new accounting standards related to revenue recognition for Q1  Q3 of fiscal year 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
 
Our net revenues for the three months and twelve months ended April 29, 2011 include a favorable impact of $48.2 million and $129.2 million, respectively, from the adoption of the new accounting standards related to revenue recognition. In Q2, application of the new standards included an incremental impact of approximately $28 million to both revenues and cost of revenues for a single transaction, the only such transaction of its kind, entered into in fiscal year 2011. While operating under the old methodology, the average impact of the first three quarters was just under $20 million per quarter. The gap was wider in Q4 as the previous methodology no longer governed our practices. For the adjusted Statements of Operations for Q1  Q3, please see page 14 of this commentary or on our website
http://investors.netapp.com
.
 
 
 
 
Q4 Fiscal Year 2011
 
Revenue
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
Net revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.428 billion, an increase of 11% sequentially and 22% year over year. Foreign currency had an immaterial impact on revenue, on both a sequential and a year over year basis.
2
Product revenue grew 14% sequentially and increased 27% year over year to $960 million. The product component of our revenue mix increased to 67% of net revenue, up from 65% last quarter.
Revenue from software entitlement and maintenance (SEM), which is a deferred revenue element and is recognized over the related contract period, was $187 million or 13% of net revenue. SEM revenue increased 2% sequentially and 8% year over year.
Service revenue was $281 million, an increase of 7% sequentially and 17% year over year. Service revenue represented 20% of net revenue.
 
Sequential growth calculated based upon recast Q3 FY11 results which can be found on in this supplemental commentary and on our website at investors.netapp.com
1
 
2
 
Foreign currency effects represent the changes in the average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the comparative prior periods (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period actual net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities.
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
 
Operating Expenses
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $663 million, an increase of 14% from the prior quarter and an increase of 23% year over year. Q4 non-GAAP operating expenses were 46% of net revenue, compared to 45% last quarter.
In Q4 we crossed the 10,000 headcount mark by adding net new 454 employees for a total global headcount of 10,212 as of April 29, 2011.
On a GAAP basis, Q4 operating expenses included stock compensation expense of $44 million, up from $40 million in Q3, as well as amortization of intangibles, acquisition related expenses and restructuring charges.
 
 
 
 
Income from Operations, Other Income & Effective Tax Rate
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
Non-GAAP income from operations was $273 million or 19.1% of revenue in Q4. Non-GAAP income from operations rose 1% sequentially and 26% year over year.
Non-GAAP other income, net was $8 million in Q4. GAAP other expense, net includes $14 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $281 million or 19.7% of revenue in Q4, compared to 21.2% of revenue in the prior quarter. The non-GAAP effective tax rate was 15.8%.
Net Income
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
Non-GAAP net income totaled $237 million or $0.59 per share. GAAP net income was $161 million or $0.40 per share. Diluted share count decreased by approximately 3 million shares in Q4 from the prior quarter.
 
 
 
 
Impact of Convertible Note Transaction on Share Count
For Q4, our dilutive share count was approximately 404 million, slightly lower than our guidance of approximately 414 million. With an average stock price of $51.23 during Q4, both the convertible notes and warrants had a dilutive impact on our share count.
Our convertible notes have a dilutive impact on our share count whenever the average quarterly share price is above the notes $31.85 conversion price.  We expect the dilutive effect from the notes will ultimately be 80% hedged, although the hedge will not be reflected in our share count until the notes are converted or mature in June 2013 as it is considered anti-dilutive under GAAP. If the notes had been converted in Q4, the hedge would have reduced our share count by approximately 12 million shares.
 
Unlike the notes, the warrants are not hedged and are dilutive whenever the average quarterly stock price is above $41.28.
 
 
 
3
 
80% hedged on maturity or conversion of the convertible notes.
 
 
 
 
Select Balance Sheet Items
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
For Q4, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments grew by $419 million, ending the quarter at $5.2 billion, up 9% sequentially and 39% year over year. Of the Q4 cash balance, 59% was held in the US. Our balance sheet reflects a total deferred revenue balance of $2.3 billion, an increase of 12% sequentially and 21% year over year.
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO) increased from 39 days in Q3 to 47 days in Q4 partially due to material constraints at the beginning of the quarter. Q4 inventory turns were 18.1, similar to Q3 levels.
 
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
*
Net cash provided by operating activities was $459 million, an increase of 29% sequentially and a decrease of 3% from Q4 last year.  Capital expenditures were $73 million, an increase of $7 million from last quarter.  Free cash flow totaled $386 million or 27% of revenue and increased 34% sequentially but decreased 12% year over year.
 
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter.
4
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP cost of revenues divided by net inventory.
5
 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment.
6
 
 
 
 
Q1 FY12 Outlook
This forecast reflects the Engenio acquisition which closed on May 9, new accounting standards related to revenue recognition and is based on current business expectations and current market conditions. Dilutive share count includes the impact of our convertible note and warrants, based upon our average stock price of $52.98 for the first 10 days of our first quarter. We estimate share count for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 will increase to approximately 410 million shares, including an estimated 16 million shares from the Companys outstanding convertible notes and 9 million shares from outstanding warrants. Share count does not include the Companys outstanding note hedges that are expected to offset 80% of the dilution from the convertible notes at maturity or conversion, which would equate to an offset of approximately 13 million shares if the conversion or maturity occurs in the first quarter.
 
 
 
 
Other Business Metrics
 
Geographic Mix
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
 
The Americas contributed $805 million, 56% of revenue, an increase of 15% sequentially and an increase of 27% year over year. Included in the Americas number are the commercial and public sector. The U.S. commercial contributed $576 million or 40% of revenue, an increase of 6% sequentially and 14% year over year. The U.S. public sector generated $229 million or 16% of total revenue, an increase of 43% sequentially and 73% year over year. In the fourth quarter, EMEA contributed $487 million or 34% of total revenue, up 7% sequentially and 15% year over year. Asia Pacific generated $137 million or 10% of revenue. APAC revenue was up 5% from the prior quarter and 21% year over year.
 
 
 
 
Channel Mix
 
*
Reflects new accounting standards related to revenue recognition
 
In the fourth quarter, both the direct and indirect channels demonstrated revenue growth. Direct revenues were 25% of total revenue and increased 7% sequentially and 6% year over year. Indirect business continues to be a major contributor of our revenue growth, supplying a record 75% of quarterly revenue. Our indirect business grew 12% sequentially and 28% year over year.
 
Within the indirect channel, Arrow accounted for 19% of total revenue and Avnet contributed 12% of total revenue. Revenue from our IBM OEM was 3% of total revenue, consistent with their Q1 seasonality.
 
Customer Dynamics
 
This quarters top 100 accounts contributed approximately 40% of total Q4 revenue, similar to Q4 fiscal year 2010 levels. In fiscal year 2011, we added 104 net new Storage 5000 accounts for a total of 1,976 accounts in the Storage 5000.
 
Platform Trends
 
Total systems shipped increased 15% sequentially and grew 29% year over year. Large system units grew 86% from Q3 levels while showing a 64% year over year growth. Medium-sized systems grew 39% sequentially and increased 51% year over year. Small sized systems declined 4% from last quarter while growing 11% year over year. Units of the V-series platform grew 37% sequentially and 35% year over year.
 
 
 
 
 
Capacity Trends
 
 
In Q4, we shipped 711 petabytes, representing a 26% increase over the prior quarter and growing 59% year over year. ATA drives represented approximately 2/3 of the total capacity shipped, consistent with the past several quarters.
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at
http://investors.netapp.com
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q1  Q3 Fiscal Year 2011 Adjusted Statements of Operations with New Accounting Standards
 
 
 
(1) In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp adopted new revenue recognition standards.  We implemented these standards retrospectively to the beginning of fiscal year 2011; therefore, the full year and previously reported fiscal year 2011 quarterly results have been adjusted to reflect the adjustments for adopting these new standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 


