FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20110216160236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
  
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 16, 2011, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended January 28, 2011.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP operating results and net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of net income that exclude: (a) amortization of intangible assets, (b) stock-based compensation expenses, (c) acquisition related income and expenses, (d) restructuring and other charges, (e) asset impairments, (f) non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (g) net losses or gains on investments, and (h) our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
B.  NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, we do not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
 C.  NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including merger termination proceeds, from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related income and expense.
  
 D. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
E. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairments.
F..  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
G. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
Net losses or gains.
 
H. NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision from its non-GAAP measure of  net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate  for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects.
 
 
 
 
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
99.1 PRESS RELEASE
 
February 16, 2011NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended January 28, 2011. Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 totaled $1.268 billion compared to revenues of $1.012 billion for the same period a year ago, an increase of 25% year over year.
Sunnyvale, Calif.
 
For the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, GAAP net income was $172 million, or $0.42 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $108 million, or $0.30 per share, for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $211 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $144 million, or $0.40 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
 
Revenues for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $3.613 billion compared to revenues of $2.760 billion for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year, an increase of 31% year over year.
 
GAAP net income for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $479 million, or $1.23 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $255 million, or $0.73 per share for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year. Non-GAAP net income for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 totaled $596 million, or $1.53 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $350 million, or $1.00 per share for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year.
 
NetApp demonstrated momentum in the market again this quarter, with product revenue growth of 32% year over year, strong gross margins, and continued market share gains. As customers move toward the next generation IT infrastructure, NetApps innovation leadership is enabling compelling business outcomes for our customers and propelling our rapid growth, said Tom Georgens, president and CEO. Our recent product launch further enhanced our competitive position and significantly surpassed our expectations. We have experienced the fastest uptake for a new product in the history of the company and as a result, demand has exceeded the available supply of our new FAS3200 systems. We pride ourselves on our ability to execute this business with precision, even in the face of exceptionally rapid growth. We are committed to catching up to the demand as quickly as possible. 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Business Highlights
In the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, NetApp announced its biggest product launch in the companys history, aimed at enabling customers to address todays evolving business requirements by moving to a flexible and efficient shared IT infrastructure. Additionally, NetApp and its executives received several noteworthy industry honors and the company once again was named one of the best places to work in the country. Key business highlights include the following:
NetApp Paves the Way for Customers to Make the Transition to a Shared IT Infrastructure and Capitalize on New Growth Opportunities
 
 
 
 
 
 
Milestones and Awards
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp third quarter fiscal year 2011 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, February 16, 2011, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will also be available after 4:00 p.m. Pacific time on our Web site.
http://investors.netapp.com
NetApp uses a hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp posts a separate document with financial commentary and statistics. This supplemental commentary is available prior to the conference call in order to provide the investment community with additional time to analyze our results. The supplemental commentary will be posted to our Web site at and will not be read during the earnings call.
investors.netapp.com
 
 
 
 
 
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency and accelerate business breakthroughs. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasted operating results, share count, and metrics for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011; expectations regarding our recent new product introductions and acquisitions, and our partnerships and strategic alliances; and the benefits that we expect our customers to realize from using our products and from our strategic alliances and partnerships. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services including our recent new product introductions; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in networked storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective; and other important factors as described in NetApp reports and documents filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections captioned Risk Factors in our most recently submitted Annual and Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, Data ONTAP, FlexPod, and OnCommand are trademarks or registered trademarks of NetApp, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands or products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be treated as such.
 
 
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press Contact:                                    
Ryan Lowry                                          
NetApp                                                  
(408) 822-7544                                        
                                
ryanl@netapp.com
 
Investor Contacts:
Shauna OBoyle
NetApp
(408) 822-7655
oboyle@netapp.com
 
 
 
 
 
 

99.2 SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTARY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This supplemental commentary is being provided concurrently with our earnings press release to allow for additional time for review and analysis prior to commencement of the companys earnings call. These prepared remarks will not be read during the live call. The call will focus on strategic commentary from the CEO and CFO, followed by a question and answer session.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including the statements under the Q4 FY11 outlook section Actual results may differ materially from our statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our statements or projections include, but are not limited to, customer demand for our products and services, including our recent new product introductions; our ability to increase revenue and manage our operating costs; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and services; increased competition risks associated with the anticipated growth in the networked storage market; general economic and market conditions; our ability to deliver new product architectures and enterprise service offerings; and our ability to design products and services that compete effectively from a price and performance perspective. Other equally important factors are detailed in our accompanying press release as well as in our Annual and Quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively, on file with the SEC and also available on our website, all of which are incorporated by reference into todays commentary.
regarding
our forecasted financial performance and share count for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011.
 
All numbers herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless indicated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between our non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the tables at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q3 Fiscal Year 2011 Overview
 
Driven by the successful launch for our new products, our year over year product revenue growth was over 30% in Q3 despite tougher compares. Revenue growth was evident across all regions, with a notable 35% increase in EMEA over Q3 last year. Our profitability continues to expand with $211 million in non-GAAP net income this quarter, a 46% year over year gain. Cash generation remains robust as this quarter marks the second consecutive quarter of approximately $300 million in free cash flow.
 
 
Revenue
 
Net revenue for the third quarter grew 5% sequentially to $1,268 million, an increase of 25% year over year.
 
Foreign currency fluctuations increased our sequential results by approximately one percentage point while decreasing our year over year results by approximately one percentage point.
2
 
In the third quarter, product revenue was $818 million, an increase of 5% sequentially and 32% year over year. The product component of revenue remained constant at 65% of total revenue.
 
Revenue from software entitlements and maintenance (SEM), which is a deferred revenue element and is recognized over the related contract period, was $184 million or 14% of total revenue. SEM revenue grew 3% sequentially and increased 8% year over year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sequential growth calculation based upon Q2 FY11 results, which can be found at investors.netapp.com
1
 
Foreign currency effects represent the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the comparative prior periods (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period actual net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service revenue was $266 million, an increase of 6% sequentially and 20% year over year. Service revenue was 21% of total revenue.
 
 
 
Gross Margin
 
On a non-GAAP basis, total gross margin was 65.5% of revenue for Q3, down from 66.9% in Q2 due mainly to lower product gross margins, partially offset by higher service margins.
 
Operating Expenses
 
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $584 million, an increase of 3% from the prior quarter and an increase of 22% year over year. Q3 operating expenses were 46% of revenue, compared to 47% in Q2.
 
In Q3 we added net new 415 employees for a total global headcount of 9,758.
 
On a GAAP basis, Q3 operating expenses included stock compensation expense of $40 million, up from $34 million in Q2, and amortization of intangible assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income from Operations, Other Income & Effective Tax Rate
 
Non-GAAP income from operations was $247 million or 19.4% of revenue in Q3.  This represents an increase of 3% sequentially and 44% year over year.
 
In Q3, non-GAAP other income, net was $5 million. GAAP other expense, net includes approximately $13 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes.
 
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $252 million or 19.8% of revenue in Q3, compared to 20.1% of revenue in the prior quarter. Similar to the prior quarters of this fiscal year, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 16.3%.
 
Net Income
 
Non-GAAP net income totaled $211 million, or $0.52 per share. GAAP net income was $172 million, or $0.42 per share. Diluted share count increased 14 million shares from the prior quarter to approximately 406 million shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact of Convertible Note Transaction on Share Count
 
For Q3, our dilutive share count was approximately 406 million, slightly lower than our guidance of approximately 408 million. With our average stock price for the quarter of $54.77, both the convertible notes and the warrants had a dilutive impact on our share count.
 
Our convertible notes have a dilutive impact on our share count whenever our average quarterly stock price is above the notes $31.85 conversion price. We expect the dilutive effect from the notes will ultimately be 80% hedged, although that hedge will not be reflected until the notes are converted or mature in June 2013 as it is considered anti-dilutive under GAAP. If the notes had been converted in Q3, the hedge would have reduced our share count by approximately 14 million shares.
 
Unlike the notes, the warrants are not hedged and are dilutive whenever the average quarterly stock price is above $41.28.
Select Balance Sheet Items
 
For the third quarter, cash, cash equivalents and short term investments grew by $374 million, ending the quarter at $4.8 billion, up 9% sequentially and 47% year over year. Similar to the prior quarter, 57% of the cash balance was held in the United States.
 
Our balance sheet reflects a total deferred revenue balance of $2.1 billion, an increase of 7% sequentially and 19% year over year.
 
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO) increased from 34 days in Q2 to 39 days in Q3. Q3 inventory turns of 18 were similar to last quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
80% hedged on maturity or conversion of the convertible notes.
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by number of days in the quarter.
4
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP COGS divided by net inventory.
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $364 million, similar to last quarter and an increase of 86% over Q3 last year. Capital expenditures were $66 million, an increase of $23 million from last quarter. Free cash flow totaled $297 million or 23% of revenue and decreased 7% sequentially but more than doubled year over year.
 
Q4 FY11 Outlook
 
This forecast is based on current business expectations and current market conditions. Dilutive share count includes the impact of our convertible note and warrants, based upon our average stock price of $58.22 for the first 10 days of our fourth quarter. We estimate share count for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 will increase to approximately 414 million shares, including an estimated 18 million shares from the Companys outstanding convertible notes and 12 million shares from outstanding warrants. Share count does not include the Companys outstanding note hedges that are expected to offset 80% of the dilution from the convertible notes at maturity or conversion, which would equate to an offset of approximately 14 million shares if the conversion or maturity occurs in the fourth quarter.
 
 
 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash purchases of property and equipment.
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Business Metrics
 
Geographic Mix
 
The Americas contributed $690 million, 54% of total revenue in Q3, a decrease of 7% sequentially and an increase of 19% year over year. The Americas numbers include the commercial and public sector. The U.S. commercial contributed $531 million or 42% of revenue, an increase of 6% sequentially and 23% year over year. The U.S. public sector generated $159 million or 12% of total revenue, a decrease of 34% from Q2 but an increase of 8% year over year. In the third quarter, EMEA contributed $450 million or 36% of total revenue, up 29% sequentially and 35% year over year. AsiaPacific generated $128 million or 10% of revenues. APAC revenue was up 10% from the prior quarter and 28% year over year.
 
Channel Mix
 
In the third quarter, direct revenue was 26% of total revenue and declined 2% sequentially while increasing 7% year over year. Our indirect business continues to grow and represents 74% of this quarters revenues; this is an increase of  8% sequentially and 33% year over year.
 
Within the indirect channel, Arrow accounted for 18% of total revenue and Avnet contributed 12% of total revenue. Revenue from our IBM OEM partnership was 5% of total revenue.
 
Platform Trends
Total system units shipped grew 7% sequentially and increased 23% year over year. After a decline of 23% last quarter, large system units grew 15% this quarter and increased 12% year over year. Medium-sized system units increased 14% sequentially while posting 49% year over year growth. Small-sized systems units increased 2% sequentially and 12% year over year. Units of the V-series platform increased 17% sequentially and 78% year over year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capacity Trends
 
Our capacity shipped expanded to 565 petabytes shipped in Q3, representing an increase of 8% sequentially and 73% year over year. ATA and SAS drives continue to gain traction with our customers.
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at www.netapp.com.
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 


