FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20110523164547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 17, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of NetApp, Inc. (the "Company") approved compensation packages for fiscal year 2012 for the Company's senior executives, including its named executive officers. For fiscal year 2012, the annual base salaries and target incentive compensation awards for the following named executive officers (including the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer) will be:
 
The fiscal year 2012 annual base salaries will become effective August 1, 2011, and target incentive compensation awards are effective as of April 30, 2011.
Incentive compensation for the Company's named executive officers has been established pursuant and subject to the terms of the Company's Executive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Proxy Statement, dated August 20, 2009. Under the Plan, the funding of the bonus pool from which bonuses will be paid for fiscal 2012 will be based on the Company's actual achievement against annual revenue and operating profit targets, with revenue weighted 1/3
rd
and operating profit weighted 2/3
rd
.
In connection with this annual review, the Committee also amended the existing Change of Control Severance Agreements entered into with Messrs. Gomo, Salmon and Mendoza, to extend the expiration date to June 19, 2014. The rest of the terms of such agreements otherwise remain unchanged from the Company's standard form of Non-CEO Change of Control Severance Agreement, the form of which was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q file on September 3, 2008. A copy of the form of Amendment evidencing the extension of the Change of Control Severance Agreements entered into with Messrs. Gomo, Salmon and Mendoza will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending July 29, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


