FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20110907163024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendments to 1999 Stock Option Plan
The Board of Directors of NetApp, Inc. (the "Company") previously adopted, subject to stockholder approval, an amendment to the Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "1999 Plan") to increase the share reserve by an additional 7,700,000 shares of common stock and to approve the 1999 Plan for Section 162(m) purposes to enable certain awards granted under the 1999 Plan to continue to qualify as deductible "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Company's stockholders approved the amendment described above at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on August 31, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting").
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 1999 Plan, a copy of which was previously filed as to the Company's proxy statement dated July 19, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Appendix A
Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Company's Board of Directors previously adopted, subject to stockholder approval, an amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") to increase the share reserve by an additional 3,500,000 shares of common stock, to clarify the discretion of the Purchase Plan administrator to determine eligibility requirements, and to remove its fixed-term expiration date.
The Company's stockholders approved the amendment described above at the Annual Meeting.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Plan, a copy of which was previously filed as to the Company's proxy statement dated July 19, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Appendix B
 
On August 31, 2011, the Company held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company elected the following individuals to the Board of Directors. Each Director will serve for the ensuing year or until his respective successor is duly elected and qualified. No members of the Company's Board of Directors had continuing terms without election.
 
 
In addition, the following proposals were voted on and approved at the Annual Meeting:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with the recommendation of our Board of Directors and the voting results of the stockholders of the Company, the Company will hold an advisory vote on Named Executive Officer compensation every year until the next stockholder advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on Named Executive Compensation.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


