FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20120815160300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 15, 2012, NetApp, Inc. (NetApp or the Company) issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting financial results for the first quarter ended July 27, 2012.  The press release and supplemental commentary are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
These exhibits shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
To supplement NetApps condensed consolidated  financial statement information presented on a GAAP basis, the press release and supplemental commentary furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, provide investors with certain non-GAAP measures, including, but not limited to, historical non-GAAP operating results and net income and historical and future non-GAAP net income per diluted share. For purposes of internal planning, performance measurement and resource allocation, NetApps management uses non-GAAP measures of net income that exclude: (a) amortization of intangible assets, (b) stock-based compensation expenses, (c) acquisition related income and expenses, (d) restructuring and other charges, (e) asset impairments, (f) non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, (g) net losses or gains on investments, and (h) our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. NetApps management uses these non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because it believes the measurements provide meaningful supplemental information regarding NetApps ongoing operational performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation.
 
As described above, NetApp excludes the following items from its non-GAAP measures:
A. NetApp records amortization of intangible assets that were acquired in connection with its business combinations. The amortization of intangible assets varies depending on the level of acquisition activity. Management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods and in measuring operational performance.
Amortization of intangible assets.
 
B.  NetApp excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. While management views stock-based compensation as a key element of our employee retention and long-term incentives, we do not view it as an expense to be used in evaluating operational performance in any given period. In addition, the valuation of stock-based awards and associated expense are based on factors and assumptions that management believes are, in large part, outside of managements control.
Stock-based compensation expenses.
C.  NetApp excludes acquisition related income and expenses, including (a) merger termination proceeds, (b) due diligence, legal and other one-time integration charges, (c) the impact of inventory step-ups, and (d) write down of assets acquired that NetApp does not intend to use in its ongoing business, from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are not related to our on-going business or cost base and, therefore, cannot be relied upon for future planning and forecasting.
Acquisition related income and expenses.
  
D. These charges include restructuring charges that are incurred based on the particular facts and circumstances of restructuring decisions, including employment and contractual settlement terms, and other related charges, and can vary in size and frequency. These items are not ordinarily included in our annual operating plan and related budget due to the unpredictability of the timing and size of these events. We therefore exclude them in our assessment of operational performance.
Restructuring and other charges.
 
 
2
 
 
E. These are non-cash charges to write down assets when there is an indication that the asset has become impaired. Management finds it useful to exclude these non-cash charges due to the unpredictability of these events in its assessment of operational performance.
Asset impairments.
 
F..  These are non-cash charges from the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs.  Management does not believe that these charges reflect the underlying performance of our business.
Non-cash interest expense
G. These include realized gains and losses on and other-than-temporary impairments of our investments related to significant investment impairments or liquidation events.  Management believes that these gains and losses do not reflect the results of our underlying, on-going businesses and, therefore, finds it useful to exclude them in assessing our performance.
Net losses or gains.
 
H.. NetApp excludes its GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from its non-GAAP measure of net income, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon its projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Management believes the use of a non-GAAP tax provision provides a more meaningful measure of the companys operational performance in any given period.
Income tax effects
 
There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our earnings release and prepared remarks. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Investors should review the information regarding non-GAAP financial measures provided in our press release and prepared remarks.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NetApp (NASDAQ: NTAP) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, which ended July 27, 2012. Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 were in line with our prior guidance and totaled $1.445 billion, compared to revenues of $1.458 billion for the same period one year ago.
Sunnyvale, Calif.August 15, 2012
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, GAAP net income was $64 million, or $0.17 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $140 million, or $0.34 per share for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 was $156 million, or $0.42 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $222 million, or $0.55 per share for the same period a year ago.
1
2
 NetApp produced non-GAAP earnings per share above and revenue in line with our prior guidance. In Q1, we announced further innovations in Data ONTAP 8.1 that will enable customers to achieve an agile data infrastructure environment to cope with their dynamic business requirements, said Tom Georgens, president and CEO. We continue to deliver on multiple fronts, advancing our technology and partnerships. With our best-of-breed partnering strategy and ongoing innovation-led solutions, we enable our customers to scale their business without limits.
Outlook
NetApps outlook for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 is based on current business expectations, market conditions, and continued uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment.
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
Business Highlights
Fundamental to NetApps growth strategy is a commitment to innovation leadership across all facets of the storage industry with a goal to help propel its customers and partners business success.
In its first quarter of fiscal year 2013, this focus on innovation spanned across NetApp products, solutions, technologies, and its culture. NetApp strengthened its reputation as an innovation leader with the latest offering of Data ONTAP, the #1 storage operating system. Data ONTAP provides the foundation for customers who require an agile data infrastructure to thrive in todays always-on global economy. Additionally, NetApp unveiled innovative new products, technologies, and programs that enable further penetration into the data center, help customers of all sizes capitalize on data growth to fuel their success and help channel partners expand their businesses. NetApp also continued to strengthen its relationship with industry leaders like Cisco and Microsoft. Finally, NetApp once again was recognized around the world for its culture, which continues to provide competitive differentiation that makes NetApp a preferred company to do business with for both customers and partners.
Highlights for the quarter include the following:
 
Agile Data Infrastructure Makes IT Intelligent, Immortal, and Infinite
Midsize Business Customers Accelerate Growth and Leverage the Cloud with NetApp
FlexPod Momentum Continues with Premium Partner Framework
 
 
 
7
 
 
Customers Gain Greater Business Value from Big Data with NetApp Solutions
 
Awards and Milestones
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The NetApp first quarter of fiscal year 2013 results conference call will be broadcast live on the Internet at on Wednesday, August 15, 2012, at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time. This press release and any other information related to the call will also be posted on the Web site at that location. An audio replay Webcast will be available after 4:30 p.m. Pacific Time on the Web site.
investors.netapp.com
NetApp uses a hybrid format for disclosing key financial information associated with our quarterly results. Concurrent with the press release, NetApp posts a supplemental commentary with financial information and statistics to our Web site at .
investors.netapp.com
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency and accelerate business breakthroughs. Discover our passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.netapp.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include all of the statements under the Outlook section relating to our forecasts for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 and expected benefits our customers may realize from our products and partnerships, all of which involve risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from our statements and projections for a variety of reasons, including general economic and market conditions and matters specific to our business, such as customer demand for and acceptance of our products and services. These and other equally important factors are described in reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections titled Risk Factors in our most recently submitted Annual and Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
NetApp, the NetApp logo, Go further, faster, Data ONTAP, and FlexPod are trademarks of NetApp, Inc. All other marks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition-related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our Company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure Company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure Company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
16
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
This supplemental commentary is provided concurrently with our earnings press release to allow for additional time to review and analyze supplemental data prior to the companys earnings call. This information will not be read during the live call.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
These prepared remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, including the statements under the Q2 FY13 Outlook section Actual results may differ materially from our statements and projections for a variety of reasons, including general economic and market conditions, and matters specific to our business such as customer demand for and acceptance of our products and services. These and other equally important factors are described in reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the factors described under the sections titled Risk Factors in our most recently submitted Annual and Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, respectively. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
regarding
our forecasts for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
All numbers herein are stated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless indicated otherwise. To see the reconciling items between the non-GAAP and GAAP financial information, refer to the tables at the end of this document, as well as in our press release and on our website.
 
 
 
18
 
 
Q1 Fiscal Year 2013
 
Revenue
Net revenue for the first quarter was $1,445 million, a decrease of 15% sequentially and 1% year over year. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of half a percentage point sequentially and one and a half percentage points on a year over year basis.
2
Product revenue was $898 million, a decline of 23% sequentially and 7% year over year.  Product revenue was 62% of net revenue in Q1, down from 68% in the prior quarter.
Revenue from software entitlements and maintenance (SEM), which is a deferred revenue element and recognized over the related contract period, was $219 million or 15% of revenue. SEM revenue grew 3% sequentially and 10% year over year.
Service revenue was $328 million, an increase of 1% sequentially and 11% year over year. Service revenue was 23% of net revenue in the first quarter, up from 19% in the fourth quarter.
 
 
_______________________________________________________
 
Sequential and year over year calculations are based upon prior results which can be found at investors.netapp.com
1
 
Foreign currency effects represent the changes in the average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the respective comparable period (or, in the case of deferred revenue, the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was invoiced), less current period net gains or losses on revenue hedging activities
2
.
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
Branded and OEM Revenue
 
Branded revenue includes revenue from all products and services sold directly by us or our partners under the NetApp brand, including NetApp branded E-Series products and solutions. Our OEM revenue comprises revenue from the sale of our products by other companies under their brands and includes revenue from IBM, Fujitsu, and other E-Series OEM relationships.
 
Gross Margin
 
Operating Expenses
Non-GAAP operating expenses of $691 million declined 3% from Q4 and grew 6% year over year. Q1 non-GAAP operating expenses were 48% of net revenue, compared to 42% in Q4.
Our global headcount increased to approximately 12,450 at the end of Q1.
GAAP operating expenses included $72 million in stock-based compensation, up from $55 million in Q4, and $7 million in amortization of intangible assets.
 
20
 
 
 
Income from Operations, Other Income & Effective Tax Rate
Non-GAAP income from operations was $181 million, a decrease of 41% sequentially and 33% year over year. Non-GAAP operating margin was 12.5% of Q1 net revenue.
Non-GAAP other income, net was $8 million.  GAAP other expenses, net includes approximately $14 million of non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes was $189 million, or 13.1% of net revenue in Q1, compared to 18.3% of net revenue in the prior quarter and 18.7% of net revenue in Q1 last year. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 17.3%.
Net Income
Non-GAAP net income was $156 million, or $0.42 per share. GAAP net income was $64 million, or $0.17 per share. Our diluted share count was 371 million shares, a decrease of 11 million shares from the prior quarter.
 
 
21
 
 
Impact of Convertible Note Transaction on Share Count
For Q1, diluted share count was approximately 371 million, lower than our previous guidance of approximately 380 million. With an average share price of $31.97 during our first quarter, the convertible notes had a less dilutive impact on our share count than expected. Since the average stock price was below the $41.28 conversion price of the warrants, there was no share count impact from warrants this quarter.
Whenever the average quarterly share price is above the notes $31.85 conversion price, our convertible notes will have a dilutive impact on our net income per share. We expect the dilutive effect from the notes will ultimately be 80% hedged, although the hedge will not be reflected in our share count until the notes are converted or mature in June 2013, as the hedge is considered anti-dilutive under GAAP. If the notes had been converted in Q1, the hedge would have reduced our share count by approximately 160 thousand shares.  Unlike the notes, the warrants are not hedged and are dilutive whenever the average quarterly stock price is above $41.28.
Select Balance Sheet Items
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $5.44 billion at the end of Q1, an increase of $43 million from Q4. This growth represents an increase of 1% sequentially and 15% year over year. Of our cash, cash equivalents and investment balance, 47% was held in the U.S. Our balance sheet reflects a total deferred revenue balance of $2.77 billion, a decrease of 2% sequentially and an increase of 16% year over year.
 
_____________________________________________________________
3
 
80% hedged on maturity or conversion of the convertible notes.
 
Days sales outstanding are defined as accounts receivable net divided by net revenue, multiplied by the number of days in the quarter.
4
 
Inventory turns are defined as annualized non-GAAP cost of revenues divided by net inventories.
5
 
 
 
22
 
 
Select Cash Flow Statement Items
Net cash provided by operating activities was $229 million, down 61% sequentially and 5% year over year. Capital expenditures were $62 million, a decline of 50% from last quarter. Free cash flow totaled $167 million or 12% of revenue.
Q2 FY13 Outlook
This forecast is based on current business expectations and market conditions and continued uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment. Dilutive share count includes the impact of our convertible notes and warrants, calculated based upon our average stock price of $32.44 for the first 10 days of our second quarter. We estimate share count for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 will decrease to approximately 370 million shares, including an estimated 700 thousand shares from the Companys outstanding convertible notes. Share count does not include the Companys outstanding note hedge that is expected to offset 80% of the dilution from the convertible notes at maturity or conversion, which would offset approximately 560 thousand shares if the conversion or maturity were to occur in the second quarter.
 
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure, and is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment.
6
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
Other Business Metrics
 
Geographic Mix
 
Americas contributed $801 million or 55% of revenue, a decline of 17% sequentially and 2% year over year. The Americas includes U.S. commercial sector and U.S. public sector. The U.S. commercial sector contributed $600 million or 42% of revenue, a decrease of 16% sequentially and 3% year over year. The U.S. public sector generated $201 million or 14% of revenue, a decrease of 20% sequentially and an increase of 3% year over year. EMEA contributed $439 million or 30% of total revenue, down 16% sequentially and 4% year over year. Asia Pacific generated $204 million or 14% of revenue, decreasing 3% from the prior quarter while growing 9% year over year.
Starting in fiscal 2013, we are now reporting our healthcare customer revenue in the U.S. public sector. Previously healthcare was reported as part of the U.S. commercial sector. The year over year growth numbers in the above table include the recast numbers for comparable periods of the prior year. See the table below for the detailed information on the fiscal 2012 Americas revenue recast.
 
Fiscal 2012 Americas Revenue Recast
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
Pathways Mix
 
Direct revenue was 22% of Q1 revenue, a decrease of 14% sequentially and 12% year over year. Indirect pathways represented 78% of this quarters revenue, a decrease of 16% sequentially and an increase of 3% year over year.
 
Within the indirect pathways, Arrow accounted for 16% of Q1 revenues and Avnet contributed 14% of this quarters revenue. Revenue from OEM customers, including IBM, Fujitsu, and other E-Series OEM customers, was 14% of net revenue.
 
 
Capacity Trends
For the first quarter, we shipped 790 petabytes of storage, a decrease of 32% over Q4 levels and an increase of 4% year over year.
 
 
25
 
 
Additional Information
 
For more detailed information about our solutions, corporate strategy and our go-to-market initiatives, please visit our website at
http://investors.netapp.com
 
NetApp Usage of Non-GAAP Financials
The Company refers to the non-GAAP financial measures cited above in making operating decisions because they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP net income excludes the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition related income and expenses, restructuring and other charges, asset impairments, non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible debt, net losses or gains on investments, and our GAAP tax provision, but includes a non-GAAP tax provision based upon our projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate for the first three quarters of the fiscal year and an actual non-GAAP tax provision for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. We have excluded these items in order to enhance investors understanding of our ongoing operations. The use of these non-GAAP financial measures has material limitations because they should not be used to evaluate our company without reference to their corresponding GAAP financial measures. As such, we compensate for these material limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are used to: (1) measure company performance against historical results, (2) facilitate comparisons to our competitors operating results, and (3) allow greater transparency with respect to information used by management in financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are used to measure company performance for the purposes of determining employee incentive plan compensation. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting at this time.
 
 
 
26
 
 
Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
Reg G Schedule
 
 
 
29


