FILE:NTAP/NTAP-8K-20121228171825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 21, 2012, NetApp, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, entered into a senior unsecured credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), with the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers. The Credit Agreement provides for a $250 million revolving unsecured credit facility. The facility provides for a sublimit for borrowing in certain foreign currencies, and a sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit on the Company's or its subsidiaries' behalf. The facility provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company to, subject to certain requirements, request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $100 million, for a potential total commitment of $350 million. The facility matures on December 21, 2017, with an option for the Company to extend the maturity date for two additional 1-year periods, subject to certain conditions. The proceeds of the loans may be used by the Company for general corporate purposes. As of December 28, 2012, no amount was outstanding under this facility.
Revolving loans accrue interest at a base rate or, at the Company's option, an adjusted LIBO rate (based on one, two, three or six-month interest periods) plus, in each case, a spread based on the ratings of the Company's senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Rating Services. The base rate means the highest of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus a margin equal to 0.50% and the adjusted LIBO rate for a 1-month interest period plus a margin equal to 1.00%. Interest on the revolving loans is payable quarterly in arrears with respect to borrowings based on the base rate and at the end of an interest period in the case of borrowings based on the adjusted LIBO rate (or at each three month interval if the interest period is longer than three months). The Company may borrow, prepay without premium or penalty, and reborrow revolving loans, subject to certain conditions. The principal amount of outstanding revolving loans, together with accrued and unpaid interest, is due on the maturity date. The Company is also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement will be guaranteed by its domestic subsidiaries meeting certain materiality thresholds. As of the closing date, there were no guarantors.
The Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants limiting the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, grant liens, sell all or substantially all of its assets, enter into certain mergers, and enter into transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
The events of default under the Credit Agreement include payment defaults, material misrepresentations, breaches of covenants, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, judgments, certain ERISA events and change of control defaults. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement, an increase in the rate of interest, and an obligation of any or all of the Company's subsidiary guarantors to pay the full amount of the Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Certain of the lenders under the Credit Agreement and their affiliates have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, investment banking and other commercial dealings in the ordinary course of business with the Company or the Company's affiliates. They have received, or may in the future receive, customary fees and commissions for these transactions.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of December 21, 2012 among NETAPP, INC., the LENDERS from time to time party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Syndication Agents.
Agreement
The parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to a Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to the sum of (i) (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate plus, without duplication (ii) in the case of Loans by a Lender from its office or branch in the United Kingdom or any Participating Member State, the Mandatory Cost.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (including its branches and affiliates), in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments of all of the Lenders, as reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to the terms and conditions hereof. As of the Effective Date, the Aggregate Commitment is $250,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment
"" means (i) Dollars, (ii) euro, (iii) Pounds Sterling, (iv) Japanese Yen, (v) Canadian Dollars, (vi) Australian Dollars, (vii) Singapore Dollars, (viii) Swiss Francs and (ix) any other currency that is (x) a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars, (y) available in the London interbank deposit market and (z) agreed to by the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders.
Agreed Currencies
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such service) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
provided
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the Aggregate Commitment represented by such Lender's Commitment; that, in the case of Section 2.23 when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the Aggregate Commitment (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan or any ABR Loan or with respect to the facility fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurocurrency Spread", "ABR Spread" or "Facility Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if neither Moody's nor S&P shall have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then Category 5 shall be in effect; (ii) if only one of Moody's or S&P provides a rating for the Index Debt, the Category corresponding to such rating shall be in effect; (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; and (iv) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency, irrespective of when notice of such change shall have been furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.01 or otherwise. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if both such rating agencies shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption agreement entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20.
Augmenting Lender
"" means the lawful currency of Australia.
Australian Dollars
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Availability Period
"" means each and any of the following bank services provided to the Borrower or any Subsidiary by any Lender or any of its Affiliates: (a) credit cards for commercial customers (including, without limitation, commercial credit cards and purchasing cards), (b) stored value cards and (c) treasury management services (including, without limitation, controlled disbursement, automated clearinghouse transactions, return items, overdrafts and interstate depository network services).
Banking Services
"" means any agreement entered into by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with Banking Services.
Banking Services Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, provided that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, provided, further, that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means any hedging agreement that is settled (after payment of any premium or any prepayment thereunder) through the delivery of cash and/or of Equity Interests of the Borrower and is entered into in connection with any Convertible Debt Securities in customary form (including, but not limited to, any bond hedge transaction, warrant transaction, or capped call transaction).
Bond Hedge
"" means NetApp, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Borrower
 
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03 in the form attached hereto as .
Borrowing Request
Exhibit I-1
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in the relevant Agreed Currency in the London interbank market or the principal financial center of such Agreed Currency (and, if the Borrowings or LC Disbursements which are the subject of a borrowing, drawing, payment, reimbursement or rate selection are denominated in euro, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which the TARGET2 payment system is not open for the settlement of payments in euro).
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" means the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
"" of any Person means, subject to the last sentence of Section 1.04(a), the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital lease obligations on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of Equity Interests representing more than 40% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated or approved by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated or approved.
Change in Control
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or with respect to any Lender, if later, the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority, or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline, requirement or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof, and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
provided however
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced or terminated from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09, (b) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.20 and (c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Assumption or other documentation contemplated hereby pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable.
Commitment
Schedule 2.01
"" is defined in Section 2.04.
Computation Date
"" means Other Connection Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes or branch profits Taxes.
Connection Income Taxes
"" means at any time the sum, without duplication, of (i) items that, in accordance with GAAP (but subject to the last sentence of Section 1.04(a)), would be classified as indebtedness on the consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (ii) the capitalized portion of any synthetic leases. For purposes of clause (ii) above, "capitalized portion" means, with respect to any synthetic lease, the price for which the lessee can purchase the leased property or could purchase it if the synthetic lease expired on the date of the applicable calculation of the Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money.
Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money
"" means, with reference to any period, the sum of the following: (a) Consolidated Net Income for such period, (b)without duplication and to the extent deducted from revenues in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) expense for taxes paid or accrued during such period, (iii) all amounts attributable to depreciation, (iv) amortization during such period, (v) share-based non-cash compensation expense, (vi) any other non-cash charges, non-cash expenses or non-cash losses of the Borrower or any Subsidiaries for such period (excluding any such charge, expense or loss incurred in the ordinary course of business that constitutes an accrual of, or a reserve for, cash charges for any future period), (vii) any unusual, extraordinary, or non-recurring charges, expenses or losses determined in accordance with GAAP, (viii) to the extent actually reimbursed in cash, expenses incurred to the extent covered by indemnification provisions in any agreement in connection with any acquisition, (ix) acquisition-related expenses (including, but not limited to, intangibles, goodwill and contingent consideration), whether or not such acquisition is successful, (x) fees, costs and expenses related to (A) the Transactions and (B) the Borrower's issuance on December 12, 2012 of (1) those certain 2.00% senior notes due 2017 and (2) those certain 3.25% senior notes due 2022, and (xi) restructuring, integration and related charges (which for the avoidance of doubt, shall include retention, severance, systems establishment costs, contract termination costs, including future lease commitments, and costs to consolidate facilities and relocate employees) (provided that the aggregate cash portion of the amounts added back pursuant to the preceding clauses (vii) and (xi) shall not exceed seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the amount of Consolidated EBITDA for such period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower), without duplication and to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Net Income, (c) interest income, (d) extraordinary non-cash gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business and (e) any cash payments made during such period in respect of any items added back pursuant to clauses (v) and (vi) above subsequent to the fiscal quarter in which the relevant non-cash item was incurred, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
minus
 
"" means, with reference to any period, the interest expense (including without limitation interest expense under Capital Lease Obligations that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period with respect to, without duplication, (i) all outstanding Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP and (ii) Swap Agreements (including, without limitation, all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers acceptance financing and net costs under interest rate Swap Agreements to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP) for such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, with reference to any period, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis (without duplication) for such period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as of the date of any determination thereof, total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis as of such date.
Consolidated Total Assets
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. A Person shall not be deemed to control another Person through the ability to exercise voting power unless such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors (or equivalent governing body) of such Person.
Control
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.14.
Controlled Affiliate
"" means debt securities, the terms of which provide for conversion into Equity Interests, cash by reference to such Equity Interests or a combination thereof.
Convertible Debt Security
"" means each of Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association in its capacity as co-syndication agent for the credit facility evidenced by this Agreement.
Co-Syndication Agent
"" means a Borrowing, the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit, an LC Disbursement or any of the foregoing.
Credit Event
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any other Lender.
Credit Party
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans, (ii) fund any portion of its participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans or (iii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by a Credit Party, acting in good faith, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with its obligations (and is financially able to meet such obligations) to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans under this Agreement, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon such Credit Party's receipt of such certification in form and substance satisfactory to it and the Administrative Agent, or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in to the Disclosure Letter.
Disclosed Matters
Schedule 3.06
"" means the disclosure letter from the Borrower dated as of the date hereof, as amended or supplemented from time to time by the Borrower with the written consent of the Administrative Agent, delivered to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders.
Disclosure Letter
"" of any currency at any date shall mean (i) the amount of such currency if such currency is Dollars or (ii) the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars if such currency is a Foreign Currency, calculated on the basis of the Exchange Rate for such currency, on or as of the most recent Computation Date provided for in Section 2.04.
Dollar Amount
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or in the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.15.
Embargoed Person
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions or notices issued or promulgated by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to employee health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for the avoidance of doubt, (i) Convertible Debt Securities shall not for purposes of this definition be deemed to be an Equity Interest and (ii) Bond Hedges shall not for purposes of this definition be deemed to be an Equity Interest.
Equity Interests
 
"" of any currency with respect to any amount of Dollars at any date shall mean the equivalent in such currency of such amount of Dollars, calculated on the basis of the Exchange Rate for such other currency at 11:00 a.m., London time, on the date on or as of which such amount is to be determined or, in the case of a calculation pursuant to Section 2.04, on or as of the most recent Computation Date provided for in Section 2.04.
Equivalent Amount
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the failure to satisfy the "minimum funding standard" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(c) of the Code or Section 302(c) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition upon the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
"" and/or "" means the single currency of the Participating Member States.
euro
"", when used in reference to a currency means an Agreed Currency and when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bears interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurocurrency
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means, on any day, with respect to any Foreign Currency, the rate at which such Foreign Currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth at approximately 11:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date on the Reuters World Currency Page for such Foreign Currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters World Currency Page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such Foreign Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be reasonably selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the event no such service is selected, such Exchange Rate shall instead be calculated on the basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent for such Foreign Currency on the London market at 11:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date for the purchase of Dollars with such Foreign Currency, for delivery two Business Days later; , that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent, after consultation with the Borrower, may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
 
"" means any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to a Recipient, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated), franchise Taxes, and branch profits Taxes, in each case, (i) imposed as a result of such Recipient being organized under the laws of, or having its principal office or, in the case of any Lender, its applicable lending office located in, the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (or any political subdivision thereof) or (ii) that are Other Connection Taxes, (b) U.S. Federal withholding Taxes imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of a Recipient with respect to an applicable interest in a Loan or Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which (i) such Recipient acquires such interest in the Loan or Commitment (other than pursuant to an assignment request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b)) or (ii) such Recipient changes its lending office, except in each case to the extent that, pursuant to Section 2.17, amounts with respect to such Taxes were payable either to such Recipient's assignor immediately before such Recipient acquired the applicable interest in a Loan or Commitment or to such Recipient immediately before it changed its lending office, (c) Taxes attributable to such Recipient's failure to comply with Section 2.17(f) and (d) any U.S. Federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.15.
Executive Order
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(c).
Extended Letter of Credit
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with), any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof and any agreement entered into pursuant to Section 1471(b)(1) of the Code.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, controller or vice president  tax and treasury of the Borrower.
Financial Officer
"" means the annual or quarterly financial statements, and accompanying certificates and other documents, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b).
Financials
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.15.
Foreign Assets Control Regulations
"" means Agreed Currencies other than Dollars.
Foreign Currencies
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the Dollar Amount of the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Foreign Currency Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate principal Dollar Amount of all LC Disbursements in respect of Foreign Currency Letters of Credit that have not yet been reimbursed at such time.
Foreign Currency LC Exposure
 
"" means a Letter of Credit denominated in a Foreign Currency.
Foreign Currency Letter of Credit
"" of the Administrative Agent shall mean, for each Foreign Currency, the office, branch, affiliate or correspondent bank of the Administrative Agent for such currency as specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower and each Lender.
Foreign Currency Payment Office
"" means $100,000,000.
Foreign Currency Sublimit
"" means (a) if the Borrower is a U.S. Person, a Lender, with respect to such Borrower, that is not a U.S. Person, and (b) if the Borrower is not a U.S. Person, a Lender, with respect to such Borrower, that is resident or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes.
Foreign Lender
"" means any Subsidiary other than a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business or any indemnification obligations entered into in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be the lower of (i) an amount equal to the stated or determined amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee is made and (ii) the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing Person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee, or, if such Guarantee is not an unconditional guarantee of the entire amount of the primary obligation and such maximum amount is not stated or determinable, the amount of such guaranteeing Person's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof determined by such Person in good faith.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, friable asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20.
Increasing Lender
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20.
Incremental Term Loan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20.
Incremental Term Loan Amendment
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding (i) accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and (ii) obligations which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been set aside in accordance with GAAP), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, (j) the Net Mark-to Market Exposure of all Swap Obligations of such Person, and (k) any other Off-Balance Sheet Liability. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, in connection with any acquisition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary permitted hereunder (or any sale, transfer or other disposition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary permitted hereunder), the term "Indebtedness" shall not include contingent consideration to which the seller in such acquisition (or the buyer in such sale, transfer or other disposition, as the case may be) may become entitled or contingent indemnity obligations that may be owed to such seller (or buyer, if applicable) in respect thereof. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means (a) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Loan Document and (b) to the extent not otherwise described in clause (a), Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other person or entity or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated November 2012 relating to the Borrower and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means the ratio, determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower ending on and after January 27, 2013, of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case for the period of 4 consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the end of such fiscal quarter.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08 in the form attached hereto as .
Interest Election Request
Exhibit I-2
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and the Maturity Date and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
"" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, or such other period as is requested by the Borrower and is acceptable to each Lender; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as the issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.06(i). The Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of the Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
"" or "" means the lawful currency of Japan.
Japanese Yen
"" means a payment made by the Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn Dollar Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate Dollar Amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a Lender hereunder pursuant to Section 2.20 or pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank.
Lenders
Schedule 2.01
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
 
"" means the ratio, determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower ending on and after January 27, 2013, of Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money as of the end of such fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA for the period of 4 consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the end of such fiscal quarter.
Leverage Ratio
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on, in the case of Dollars, Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page and, in the case of any Foreign Currency, the appropriate page of such service which displays British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rates (or any successor or replacement thereof as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) for deposits in such Foreign Currency (or, in each case, on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in the relevant Agreed Currency in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to (or, in the case of Loans denominated in Pounds Sterling, on the day of) the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in the relevant Agreed Currency with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason (including, for the avoidance of doubt, in the event of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Singapore Dollars or any other Agreed Currency for which no screen quote based on British Bankers Association Settlement Rates (or any successor or replacement thereof as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) is available from Reuters or such successor or substitute service), then the "" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in the applicable Agreed Currency in an Equivalent Amount of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent (or, if applicable, such other Foreign Currency Payment Office for such Foreign Currency) in immediately available funds in the London interbank market (or, if applicable, such other offshore interbank market for such Foreign Currency) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time (or, if applicable, such other Local Time for such Foreign Currency), two (2) Business Days prior to (or, in the case of Loans denominated in Pounds Sterling, on the day of) the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or other security interest in, on or of such asset and (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, the Subsidiary Guaranty, any promissory notes executed and delivered pursuant to Section 2.10(e) and any and all other instruments and documents executed and delivered in connection with any of the foregoing.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Loan Parties
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means (i) New York City time in the case of a Loan, Borrowing or LC Disbursement denominated in Dollars and (ii) local time in the case of a Loan, Borrowing or LC Disbursement denominated in a Foreign Currency (it being understood that such local time shall mean London, England time unless otherwise notified by the Administrative Agent).
Local Time
 
"" is described in .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 2.02
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the ability of the Borrower or any other Loan Party to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means each Subsidiary (a) which, as of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Borrower, for the period covering the then most recently ended fiscal year and the portion of the then current fiscal year ending at the end of such fiscal quarter, for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01, contributed greater than five percent (5%) of the Borrower's consolidated revenues for such period or (b) which contributed greater than five percent (5%) of the Borrower's Consolidated Total Assets as of such date.
Material Subsidiary
"" means December 21, 2017, as extended pursuant to Section 2.24.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" of a Person means, as of any date of determination, the excess (if any) of all unrealized losses over all unrealized profits of such Person arising from each Swap Agreement transaction. "Unrealized losses" means the fair market value of the cost to such Person of replacing such transaction as of the date of determination (assuming such transaction were to be terminated as of that date), and "unrealized profits" means the fair market value of the gain to such Person of replacing such transaction as of the date of determination (assuming such transaction was to be terminated as of that date).
Net Mark-to-Market Exposure
"" means all unpaid principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, all LC Exposure, all accrued and unpaid fees and all expenses, reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations and indebtedness (including interest and fees accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), obligations and liabilities of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to any of the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any indemnified party, individually or collectively, existing on the Effective Date or arising thereafter, direct or indirect, joint or several, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, secured or unsecured, arising by contract, operation of law or otherwise, arising or incurred under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or to the Lenders or any of their Affiliates under any Swap Agreement or any Banking Services Agreement or in respect of any of the Loans made or reimbursement or other obligations incurred for any of the Letters of Credit or other instruments at any time evidencing any thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for the avoidance of doubt, obligations arising from Bond Hedges and letter of credit facilities that are not under this Agreement shall not be considered Obligations.
Obligations
 
"" means Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury.
OFAC
"" of a Person means (a) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person that is related to retained credit risk, or (b) any indebtedness, liability or obligation under any so-called "synthetic lease" transaction entered into by such Person.
Off-Balance Sheet Liability
"" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document).
Other Connection Taxes
"" means all present or future stamp, court or documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, from the receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 2.19).
Other Taxes
"" means, for any amount payable in a Foreign Currency, the rate of interest per annum as determined by the Administrative Agent at which overnight or weekend deposits in the relevant currency (or if such amount due remains unpaid for more than three (3) Business Days, then for such other period of time as the Administrative Agent may elect) for delivery in immediately available and freely transferable funds would be offered by the Administrative Agent to major banks in the interbank market upon request of such major banks for the relevant currency as determined above and in an amount comparable to the unpaid principal amount of the related Credit Event, plus any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed upon, or charged to, the Administrative Agent by any relevant correspondent bank in respect of such amount in such relevant currency.
Overnight Foreign Currency Rate
"" means, with respect to any Lender, any Person as to which such Lender is, directly or indirectly, a subsidiary.
Parent
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Participant
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(c).
Participant Register
"" means any member state of the European Union that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency in accordance with legislation of the European Union relating to economic and monetary union.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
 
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for Taxes or other governmental charges that are not yet delinquent or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
(b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, landlord's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than sixty (60) days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(e) judgment Liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII;
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere in any material respect with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(g) leases or subleases granted to other Persons and not interfering in any material respect with the business of the lessor or sublessor;
(h) Liens arising from precautionary Uniform Commercial Code filings or similar filings relating to operating leases;
(i) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection within the importation of goods;
(j) licenses of intellectual property in the ordinary course of business; and
(k) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor under any lease of real property or personal property;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" or "" means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Pounds Sterling
 
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means any Person (a) listed in the Annex to the Executive Order or identified pursuant to Section 1 of the Executive Order; (b) that is owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, any Person listed in the Annex to the Executive Order or identified pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of the Executive Order; (c) with whom a Lender is prohibited from dealing or otherwise engaging in any transaction by any terrorism or anti-laundering law, including the Executive Order; (d) who commits, threatens, conspires to commit, or support "terrorism" as defined in the Executive Order; (e) who is named as a "Specially designated national or blocked person" on the most current list published by the OFAC at its official website, at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn/t11sdn.pdf or any replacement website or other replacement official publication of such list; or (f) who is owned or controlled by a Person listed above in clause (c) or (e).
Prohibited Person
"" means (a) the Administrative Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) the Issuing Bank, as applicable.
Recipient
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective partners, trustees, administrators, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01.
Revolving Loan
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
S&P
"" means any sale or other transfer of assets or property by any Person with the intent to lease any such asset or property as lessee.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the lawful currency of Singapore.
Singapore Dollars
 
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve, liquid asset, fees or similar requirements (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves or other requirements) established by any central bank, monetary authority, the Board, the Financial Services Authority, the European Central Bank or other Governmental Authority for any category of deposits or liabilities customarily used to fund loans in the applicable currency, expressed in the case of each such requirement as a decimal. Such reserve, liquid asset, fees or similar requirements shall, in the case of Dollar denominated Loans, include those imposed pursuant to Regulation D of the Board. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to be subject to such reserve, liquid asset, fee or similar requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under any applicable law, rule or regulation, including Regulation D of the Board. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve, liquid asset or similar requirement.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary the payment of which is subordinated to payment of the obligations under the Loan Documents.
Subordinated Indebtedness
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, Controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means each Material Subsidiary that is a Domestic Subsidiary and party to the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Subsidiary Guarantors on the Effective Date are identified as such in to the Disclosure Letter.
Subsidiary Guarantor
Schedule 3.01
"" means that certain Guaranty in the form of (including any and all supplements thereto) and executed by each Subsidiary Guarantor, and any other guaranty agreements as are requested by the Administrative Agent and its counsel, in each case as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit D
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement dealing with interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices, either generally or under specific contingencies.
Swap Agreement
"" of a Person means any and all obligations of such Person, whether absolute or contingent and howsoever and whensoever created, arising, evidenced or acquired (including all renewals, extensions and modifications thereof and substitutions therefor), under (a) any and all Swap Agreements, and (b) any and all cancellations, buy backs, reversals, terminations or assignments of any such Swap Agreement transaction.
Swap Obligations
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swingline Loan
 
"" means the lawful currency of Switzerland.
Swiss Francs
"" means the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer () payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET2
TARGET2
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.15.
Trading with the Enemy Act
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the applicable Loan Parties of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and other credit extensions and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(B)(3).
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
"" means any Subsidiary, 100% of the Equity Interests of which are owned, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower, other than any directors' qualifying shares as required by law or shares held by nominees on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as required by law.
wholly-owned Subsidiary
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
"" means any Loan Party and the Administrative Agent.
Withholding Agent
SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
 
SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". The word "law" shall be construed as referring to all statutes, rules, regulations, codes and other laws (including official rulings and interpretations thereunder having the force of law or with which affected Persons customarily comply), and all judgments, orders and decrees, of all Governmental Authorities. Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any definition of or reference to any statute, rule or regulation shall be construed as referring thereto as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (including by succession of comparable successor laws), (c) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on assignment set forth herein) and, in the case of any Governmental Authority, any other Governmental Authority that shall have succeeded to any or all functions thereof, (d) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (e) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (f) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
SECTION 1.04. . (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith; , further, that in the event that the Borrower requests such an amendment, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to evaluate such proposed amendment. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary at "fair value", as defined therein, (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof and (iii) in a manner such that any obligations relating to a lease that was accounted for by such Person as an operating lease as of the Effective Date and any similar lease entered into after the Effective Date by such Person shall be accounted for as obligations relating to an operating lease and not as Capital Lease Obligations.
Accounting Terms; GAAP; Pro Forma Calculations
provided
provided
(b) All pro forma computations required to be made hereunder giving effect to any acquisition or disposition, or issuance, incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness, or other transaction shall in each case be calculated giving pro forma effect thereto (and, in the case of any pro forma computation made hereunder to determine whether such acquisition or disposition, or issuance, incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness, or other transaction is permitted to be consummated hereunder, to any other such transaction consummated since the first day of the period covered by any component of such pro forma computation and on or prior to the date of such computation) as if such transaction had occurred on the first day of the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the most recent fiscal quarter for which financial statements shall have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01(b) (or, prior to the delivery of any such financial statements, ending with the last fiscal quarter included in the financial statements referred to in Section 3.04(a)), and, to the extent applicable, to the historical earnings and cash flows associated with the assets acquired or disposed of (but without giving effect to any synergies or cost savings) and any related incurrence or reduction of Indebtedness, all in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act. If any Indebtedness bears a floating rate of interest and is being given pro forma effect, the interest on such Indebtedness shall be calculated as if the rate in effect on the date of determination had been the applicable rate for the entire period (taking into account any Swap Agreement applicable to such Indebtedness).
 
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender (severally and not jointly) agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower in Agreed Currencies from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the Dollar Amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment, (b) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the sum of the Dollar Amount of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the Aggregate Commitment or (c) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the Dollar Amount of the total outstanding Revolving Loans and LC Exposure, in each case denominated in Foreign Currencies, exceeding the Foreign Currency Sublimit. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Commitments
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Loan (other than a Swingline Loan) shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. Any Swingline Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.05.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith; that each ABR Loan shall only be made in Dollars. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan (and in the case of an Affiliate, the provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 shall apply to such Affiliate to the same extent as to such Lender); that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 (or, if such Borrowing is denominated in (i) Japanese Yen, 100,000,000 and (ii) a Foreign Currency other than Japanese Yen, 1,000,000 units of such currency) and not less than $1,000,000 (or, if such Borrowing is denominated in (i) Japanese Yen, 100,000,000 and (ii) a Foreign Currency other than Japanese Yen, 1,000,000 units of such currency). At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the Aggregate Commitment or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $500,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of fifteen (15) Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request (a) by irrevocable written notice (via a written Borrowing Request signed by the Borrower) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, three (3) Business Days (in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or by irrevocable written notice (via a written Borrowing Request signed by the Borrower) not later than four (4) Business Days (in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency), in each case before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) by telephone in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one (1) Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e) may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Borrowings
provided
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Agreed Currency and initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then, in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars, the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. . The Administrative Agent will determine the Dollar Amount of:
Determination of Dollar Amounts
(a) each Eurocurrency Borrowing as of the date two (2) Business Days prior to the date of such Borrowing or, if applicable, the date of conversion/continuation of any Borrowing as a Eurocurrency Borrowing,
 
(b) the LC Exposure as of the date of each request for the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit, and
(c) all outstanding Credit Events on and as of the last Business Day of each calendar quarter and, during the continuation of an Event of Default, on any other Business Day elected by the Administrative Agent in its discretion or upon instruction by the Required Lenders.
Each day upon or as of which the Administrative Agent determines Dollar Amounts as described in the preceding clauses (a), (b) and (c) is herein described as a "Computation Date" with respect to each Credit Event for which a Dollar Amount is determined on or as of such day.
SECTION 2.05. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans in Dollars to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $10,000,000 or (ii) the Dollar Amount of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the Aggregate Commitment; provided that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e), by remittance to the Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis
mutandis
provided
 
SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit denominated in Agreed Currencies as the applicant thereof for the support of its or its Subsidiaries' obligations, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control. The Borrower unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that, in connection with any Letter of Credit issued for the support of any Subsidiary's obligations as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph, the Borrower will be fully responsible for the reimbursement of LC Disbursements in accordance with the terms hereof, the payment of interest thereon and the payment of fees due under Section 2.12(b) to the same extent as if it were the sole account party in respect of such Letter of Credit (the Borrower hereby irrevocably waiving any defenses that might otherwise be available to it as a guarantor or surety of the obligations of such a Subsidiary that is an account party in respect of any such Letter of Credit).
Letters of Credit
General
(b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank) to the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the Agreed Currency applicable thereto, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the Dollar Amount of the LC Exposure shall not exceed $50,000,000, (ii) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the sum of the Dollar Amount of the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitment and (iii) subject to Sections 2.04 and 2.11(b), the Dollar Amount of the total outstanding Revolving Loans and LC Exposure, in each case denominated in Foreign Currencies, shall not exceed the Foreign Currency Sublimit.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
 
(c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire (or be subject to termination by notice from the Issuing Bank to the beneficiary thereof) at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five (5) Business Days prior to the Maturity Date; that, upon the Borrower's request, any such Letter of Credit which is issued in the final year prior to the Maturity Date may have an expiry date which is one (1) year after the Maturity Date if cash collateralized or covered by standby letter(s) of credit in compliance with Section 2.06(j) below (each such Letter of Credit, an ""). For the avoidance of doubt, if the Maturity Date shall be extended pursuant to Section 2.24, "Maturity Date" as referenced in this clause (c) shall refer to the Maturity Date as extended pursuant to Section 2.24; that, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement (including Section 2.24 hereof) or any other Loan Document to the contrary, the Maturity Date, as such term is used in reference to the Issuing Bank or any Letter of Credit issued thereby, may not be extended without the prior written consent of the Issuing Bank.
Expiration Date
provided
Extended Letter of Credit
provided
(d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
(e) . If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent in Dollars the Dollar Amount equal to such LC Disbursement, calculated as of the date the Issuing Bank made such LC Disbursement (or if the Issuing Bank shall so elect in its sole discretion by notice to the Borrower, in such other Agreed Currency which was paid by the Issuing Bank pursuant to such LC Disbursement in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement) not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that, if such LC Disbursement is not less than the Dollar Amount of $1,000,000, the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.05 that such payment be financed with (i) to the extent such LC Disbursement was made in Dollars, an ABR Revolving Borrowing, Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in Dollars in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement or (ii) to the extent that such LC Disbursement was made in a Foreign Currency, a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing in such Foreign Currency in an amount equal to such LC Disbursement and, in each case, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing, Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan, as applicable. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement. If the Borrower's reimbursement of, or obligation to reimburse, any amounts in any Foreign Currency would subject the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to any stamp duty, ad valorem charge or similar tax that would not be payable if such reimbursement were made or required to be made in Dollars, the Borrower shall, at its option, either (x) pay the amount of any such tax requested by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the relevant Lender or (y) reimburse each LC Disbursement made in such Foreign Currency in Dollars, in an amount equal to the Equivalent Amount, calculated using the applicable Exchange Rates, on the date such LC Disbursement is made, of such LC Disbursement.
Reimbursement
provided
mutatis
mutandis
 
(f) . The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
Obligations Absolute
provided
(g) . The Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
 
(h) . If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans (or in the case such LC Disbursement is denominated in a Foreign Currency, at the Overnight Foreign Currency Rate for such Agreed Currency the then effective Applicable Rate with respect to Eurocurrency Revolving Loans); that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
plus
provided
(i) . The Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of the Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.12(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit then outstanding and issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of Issuing Bank
(j) . If (x) any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph or (y) the Borrower requests the issuance of an Extended Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to 105% of the Dollar Amount of the LC Exposure in respect of such Extended Letter of Credit (in the case of the foregoing clause (y)) or in the aggregate (in the case of the foregoing clause (x)) as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that (i) the portions of such amount attributable to undrawn Foreign Currency Letters of Credit or LC Disbursements in a Foreign Currency that the Borrower is not late in reimbursing shall be deposited in the applicable Foreign Currencies in the actual amounts of such undrawn Letters of Credit and LC Disbursements and (ii) the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall (1) be required by no later than five (5) Business Days prior to the Maturity Date in the case of an Extended Letter of Credit and (2) become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Foreign Currency LC Exposure shall be calculated using the applicable Exchange Rate on the date notice demanding cash collateralization is delivered to the Borrower. The Borrower also shall deposit cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph as and to the extent required by Section 2.11(b). Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the Obligations. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account, and the Borrower hereby grants the Administrative Agent a security interest in such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other Obligations. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
Cash Collateralization
provided
 
SECTION 2.07. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds (i) in the case of Loans denominated in Dollars, by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders and (ii) in the case of each Loan denominated in a Foreign Currency, by 12:00 noon, Local Time, in the city of the Administrative Agent's Foreign Currency Payment Office for such currency and at such Foreign Currency Payment Office for such currency; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to (x) an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City or Chicago and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request, in the case of Loans denominated in Dollars and (y) an account of the Borrower in the relevant jurisdiction and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request, in the case of Loans denominated in a Foreign Currency; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (including without limitation the Overnight Foreign Currency Rate in the case of Loans denominated in a Foreign Currency) or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
 
SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election (by telephone or irrevocable written notice in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars or by irrevocable written notice (via an Interest Election Request signed by the Borrower) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency) by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by the Borrower. Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, this Section shall not be construed to permit the Borrower to (i) change the currency of any Borrowing, (ii) elect an Interest Period for Eurocurrency Loans that does not comply with Section 2.02(d) or (iii) convert any Borrowing to a Borrowing of a Type not available under such Borrowing.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period and Agreed Currency to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which Interest Period shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
 
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period (i) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars, such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing and (ii) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency in respect of which the Borrower shall have failed to deliver an Interest Election Request prior to the third (3
rd
) Business Day preceding the end of such Interest Period, such Borrowing shall automatically continue as a Eurocurrency Borrowing in the same Agreed Currency with an Interest Period of one month unless such Eurocurrency Borrowing is or was repaid in accordance with Section 2.11. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto and (iii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency shall automatically be continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month.
SECTION 2.09. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $5,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the Dollar Amount of the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the Aggregate Commitment.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three (3) Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities or other transactions, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
SECTION 2.10. . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date in the currency of such Loan and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
th
or last day of a calendar month and is at least two (2) Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class, Agreed Currency and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be, absent manifest error, evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.11. .
Prepayment of Loans
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.11(a). The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy or electronic communications pursuant to Section 9.01(b)) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, three (3) Business Days (in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or four (4) Business Days (in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency), in each case before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one (1) Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.09, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by (i) accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13 and (ii) break funding payments pursuant to Section 2.16.
provided
(b) If at any time, (i) other than as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, (A) the sum of the aggregate principal Dollar Amount of all of the Revolving Credit Exposures (calculated, with respect to those Credit Events denominated in Foreign Currencies, as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each such Credit Event) exceeds the Aggregate Commitment or (B) the sum of the aggregate principal Dollar Amount of all of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposures denominated in Foreign Currencies (the "") (so calculated), as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each such Credit Event, exceeds the Foreign Currency Sublimit or (ii) solely as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, (A) the sum of the aggregate principal Dollar Amount of all of the Revolving Credit Exposures (so calculated) exceeds 105% of the Aggregate Commitment or (B) the Foreign Currency Exposure, as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each such Credit Event, exceeds 105% of the Foreign Currency Sublimit, the Borrower shall in each case immediately repay Borrowings or cash collateralize LC Exposure in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.06(j), as applicable, in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to cause (x) the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Revolving Credit Exposures (so calculated) to be less than or equal to the Aggregate Commitment and (y) the Foreign Currency Exposure to be less than or equal to the Foreign Currency Sublimit, as applicable.
Foreign Currency Exposure
 
SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
provided
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurocurrency Revolving Loans on the average daily Dollar Amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure and (ii) to the Issuing Bank for its own account a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate of 0.125% per annum on the average daily Dollar Amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) attributable to Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as the Issuing Bank's standard fees and commissions with respect to the issuance, amendment, cancellation, negotiation, transfer, presentment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third (3
rd
) Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within ten (10) days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). Participation fees and fronting fees in respect of Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars shall be paid in Dollars, and participation fees and fronting fees in respect of Letters of Credit denominated in a Foreign Currency shall be paid in such Foreign Currency.
provided
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in Dollars (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.12) and immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
 
SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest (i) computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and (ii) for Borrowings denominated in Pounds Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days, and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
 
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and, unless repaid, (A) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing and (B) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, such Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be repaid on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing in Dollars, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing (and if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, such Borrowing Request shall be ineffective); that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
provided
SECTION 2.15. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement (including any compulsory loan requirement, insurance charge or other assessment) against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or the Issuing Bank;
(ii) impose on any Lender or the Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense (other than Taxes) affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; or
(iii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Taxes described in clauses (b) through (d) of the definition of Excluded Taxes and (C) Connection Income Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or such other Recipient of making, continuing, converting into or maintaining any Loan or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan (including, without limitation, pursuant to any conversion of any Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency into a Borrowing denominated in any other Agreed Currency) or to increase the cost to such Lender, the Issuing Bank or such other Recipient of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (including, without limitation, pursuant to any conversion of any Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency into a Borrowing denominated in any other Agreed Currency) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender, the Issuing Bank or such other Recipient hereunder, whether of principal, interest or otherwise (including, without limitation, pursuant to any conversion of any Borrowing denominated in an Agreed Currency into a Borrowing denominated in any other Agreed Currency), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender, the Issuing Bank or such other Recipient, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, the Issuing Bank or such other Recipient, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or the Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital or liquidity requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy and liquidity), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
 
(c) A certificate of a Lender or the Issuing Bank setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within thirty (30) days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
SECTION 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default or as a result of any prepayment pursuant to Section 2.11), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurocurrency Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(a) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for deposits in the relevant currency of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurocurrency market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within thirty (30) days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
SECTION 2.17. . (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Loan Document shall be made without deduction or withholding for any Taxes, except as required by applicable law. If any applicable law (as determined in the good faith discretion of an applicable Withholding Agent) requires the deduction or withholding of any Tax from any such payment by a Withholding Agent, then the applicable Withholding Agent shall be entitled to make such deduction or withholding and shall timely pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law and, if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax, then the sum payable by the applicable Loan Party shall be increased as necessary so that after such deduction or withholding has been made (including such deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.17) the applicable Recipient receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
Taxes
Payments Made Free of Taxes
 
(b) . The Borrower shall timely pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, or at the option of the Administrative Agent timely reimburse it for, Other Taxes.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
(c) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by any Loan Party to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this Section 2.17, such Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(d) . The Loan Parties shall indemnify each Recipient, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) payable or paid by such Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to such Recipient and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Loan Parties
(e) . Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that any Loan Party has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Loan Parties to do so), (ii) any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 9.04(c) relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (iii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Loan Document or otherwise payable by the Administrative Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this paragraph (e).
Indemnification by the Lenders
(f) . (i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(A), (ii)(B) and (ii)(D) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
Status of Lenders
 
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is a U.S. Person:
(A) any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(B) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), whichever of the following is applicable;
(1) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (x) with respect to payments of interest under any Loan Document, executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (y) with respect to any other applicable payments under any Loan Document, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(2) executed originals of IRS Form W-8ECI;
(3) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code (a "") and (y) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN; or
Exhibit H-1
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
(4) to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner, executed originals of IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN, a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of or , IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; that if the Foreign Lender is a partnership and one or more direct or indirect partners of such Foreign Lender are claiming the portfolio interest exemption, such Foreign Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of on behalf of each such direct and indirect partner;
Exhibit H-2
Exhibit H-3
provided
Exhibit H-4
 
(C) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. Federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made; and
(D) if a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this clause (D), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
Each Lender agrees that if any form or certification it previously delivered expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect, it shall update such form or certification or promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of its legal inability to do so.
(g) . If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this Section 2.17 (including by the payment of additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section 2.17 with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including Taxes) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid over pursuant to this paragraph (g) (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event that such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph (g), in no event will the indemnified party be required to pay any amount to an indemnifying party pursuant to this paragraph (g) the payment of which would place the indemnified party in a less favorable net after-Tax position than the indemnified party would have been in if the Tax subject to indemnification and giving rise to such refund had not been deducted, withheld or otherwise imposed and the indemnification payments or additional amounts with respect to such Tax had never been paid. This paragraph shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes that it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
(h) . Each party's obligations under this Section 2.17 shall survive the resignation or replacement of the Administrative Agent or any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all obligations under any Loan Document.
Survival
 
(i) . For purposes of this Section 2.17, the term "Lender" includes the Issuing Bank and the term "applicable law" includes FATCA.
Defined Terms
SECTION 2.18. .
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to (i) in the case of payments denominated in Dollars, 12:00 noon, New York City time and (ii) in the case of payments denominated in a Foreign Currency, 12:00 noon, Local Time, in the city of the Administrative Agent's Foreign Currency Payment Office for such currency, in each case on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made (i) in the same currency in which the applicable Credit Event was made (or where such currency has been converted to euro, in euro) and (ii) to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 or, in the case of a Credit Event denominated in a Foreign Currency, the Administrative Agent's Foreign Currency Payment Office for such currency, except payments to be made directly to the Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments denominated in the same currency received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, if, after the making of any Credit Event in any Foreign Currency, currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues such currency with the result that the type of currency in which the Credit Event was made (the "") no longer exists or the Borrower is not able to make payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders in such Original Currency, then all payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder in such currency shall instead be made when due in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar Amount (as of the date of repayment) of such payment due, it being the intention of the parties hereto that the Borrower takes all risks of the imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations.
Original Currency
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
 
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (including without limitation the Overnight Foreign Currency Rate in the case of Loans denominated in a Foreign Currency).
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account over which the Administrative Agent shall have exclusive control as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section; in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion.
SECTION 2.19. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or the Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(b) If (i) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, (ii) the Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17 or (iii) any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights (other than its existing rights to payments pursuant to Sections 2.15 or 2.17) and obligations under the Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
 
SECTION 2.20. . The Borrower may from time to time elect to increase the Commitments or enter into one or more tranches of term loans (each an ""), in each case in minimum increments of $20,000,000 so long as, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of such increases and all such Incremental Term Loans does not exceed $100,000,000. The Borrower may arrange for any such increase or tranche to be provided by one or more Lenders (each Lender so agreeing to an increase in its Commitment, or to participate in such Incremental Term Loans, an ""), or by one or more new banks, financial institutions or other entities (each such new bank, financial institution or other entity, an ""), which agree to increase their existing Commitments, or to participate in such Incremental Term Loans, or provide new Commitments, as the case may be; that (i) each Augmenting Lender, shall be subject to the approval of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (ii) (x) in the case of an Increasing Lender, the Borrower and such Increasing Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of hereto, and (y) in the case of an Augmenting Lender, the Borrower and such Augmenting Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of hereto. No consent of any Lender (other than the Lenders participating in the increase or any Incremental Term Loan) shall be required for any increase in Commitments or Incremental Term Loan pursuant to this Section 2.20. Increases and new Commitments and Incremental Term Loans created pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall become effective on the date agreed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the relevant Increasing Lenders or Augmenting Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the Commitments (or in the Commitment of any Lender) or tranche of Incremental Term Loans shall become effective under this paragraph unless, (i) on the proposed date of the effectiveness of such increase or Incremental Term Loans, (A) the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 shall be satisfied or waived by the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower and (B) the Borrower shall be in compliance (on a pro forma basis assuming the increased Commitments have been fully drawn as Revolving Loans) with the covenants contained in Section 6.05 and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered on the Effective Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrower to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such increase. On the effective date of any increase in the Commitments or any Incremental Term Loans being made, (i) each relevant Increasing Lender and Augmenting Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine, for the benefit of the other Lenders, as being required in order to cause, after giving effect to such increase and the use of such amounts to make payments to such other Lenders, each Lender's portion of the outstanding Revolving Loans of all the Lenders to equal its Applicable Percentage of such outstanding Revolving Loans, and (ii) except in the case of any Incremental Term Loans, the Borrower shall be deemed to have repaid and reborrowed all outstanding Revolving Loans as of the date of any increase in the Commitments (with such reborrowing to consist of the Types of Revolving Loans, with related Interest Periods if applicable, specified in a notice delivered by the Borrower, in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.03). The deemed payments made pursuant to clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence shall be accompanied by payment of all accrued interest on the amount prepaid and, in respect of each Eurocurrency Loan, shall be subject to indemnification by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.16 if the deemed payment occurs other than on the last day of the related Interest Periods. The Incremental Term Loans (a) shall rank pari passu in right of payment with the Revolving Loans, (b) shall not mature earlier than the Maturity Date (but may have amortization prior to such date) and (c) shall be treated substantially the same as (and in any event no more favorably than) the Revolving Loans; that (i) the terms and conditions applicable to any tranche of Incremental Term Loans maturing after the Maturity Date may provide for material additional or different financial or other covenants or prepayment requirements applicable only during periods after the Maturity Date and (ii) the Incremental Term Loans may be priced differently than the Revolving Loans. Incremental Term Loans may be made hereunder pursuant to an amendment or restatement (an "") of this Agreement and, as appropriate, the other Loan Documents, executed by the Borrower, each Increasing Lender participating in such tranche, each Augmenting Lender participating in such tranche, if any, and the Administrative Agent. The Incremental Term Loan Amendment may, without the consent of any other Lenders, effect such amendments to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.20; provided that any such Incremental Term Loan Amendment shall require that any waivers or amendments of Section 4.02 shall also require the written consent or approval of Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments in respect of Revolving Loans representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments in respect of Revolving Loans. Nothing contained in this Section 2.20 shall constitute, or otherwise be deemed to be, a commitment on the part of any Lender to increase its Commitment hereunder, or provide Incremental Term Loans, at any time.
Expansion Option
Incremental Term Loan
Increasing Lender
Augmenting Lender
provided
Exhibit F
Exhibit G
provided
Incremental Term Loan Amendment
 
SECTION 2.21. . The Borrower hereby designates all Obligations now or hereinafter incurred or otherwise outstanding, and agrees that the Obligations shall at all times constitute, senior indebtedness and designated senior indebtedness, or terms of similar import, which are entitled to the benefits of the subordination provisions of all Subordinated Indebtedness.
Senior Debt
SECTION 2.22. . If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due from the Borrower hereunder in the currency expressed to be payable herein (the "") into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the specified currency with such other currency at the Administrative Agent's main New York City office on the Business Day preceding that on which final, non-appealable judgment is given. The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency other than the specified currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal, reasonable banking procedures purchase the specified currency with such other currency. If the amount of the specified currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency, the Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, against such loss, and if the amount of the specified currency so purchased exceeds (a) the sum originally due to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency and (b) any amounts shared with other Lenders as a result of allocations of such excess as a disproportionate payment to such Lender under Section 2.18, such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, agrees to remit such excess to the Borrower.
Judgment Currency
specified currency
 
SECTION 2.23. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(a);
(b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 9.02); , that, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.02, this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender or each Lender directly affected thereby;
provided
(c) if any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent that (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments and (y) no Default has occurred and is continuing at such time;
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall within one (1) Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) , prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) , cash collateralize for the benefit of the Issuing Bank only the Borrower's obligations corresponding to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.06(j) for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
first
second
(iii) if the Borrower cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to clause (ii) above, the Borrower shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
(iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to clause (i) above, then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.12(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; and
 
(v) if all or any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither reallocated nor cash collateralized pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above, then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of the Issuing Bank or any other Lender hereunder, all facility fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Exposure) and letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the Issuing Bank until and to the extent that such LC Exposure is reallocated and/or cash collateralized; and
(d) so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting Lender's then outstanding LC Exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.23(c), and participating interests in any such newly made Swingline Loan or any newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.23(c)(i) (and such Defaulting Lender shall not participate therein).
If (i) a Bankruptcy Event with respect to a Parent of any Lender shall occur following the date hereof and for so long as such event shall continue or (ii) the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank has a good faith belief that any Lender has defaulted in fulfilling its obligations under one or more other agreements in which such Lender commits to extend credit, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, shall have entered into arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender, satisfactory to the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to defease any risk to it in respect of such Lender hereunder.
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
SECTION 2.24. .
Extension of Maturity Date
(a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 60 days and not later than 30 days prior to each anniversary of the date of this Agreement (each such date, an ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date to the date that is one year after the Maturity Date then in effect for such Lender (the "").
Request for Extension
Extension Date
Existing Maturity Date
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date that is 15 days after the date on which the Administrative Agent received the Borrower's extension request (the ""), advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (each Lender that determines to so extend its Maturity Date, an ""). Each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Lender Notice Date), and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Lender Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree, and it is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for extension of the Maturity Date.
Lenders Election to Extend
Lender Notice Date
Extending Lender
Non-Extending Lender
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date that is 15 days prior to the applicable Extension Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, on or before the applicable Maturity Date for any Non-Extending Lender to replace such Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more financial institutions (each, an "") approved by the Administrative Agent in accordance with the procedures provided in Section 2.19(b), each of which Additional Commitment Lenders shall have entered into an Assignment and Assumption (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04, with the Borrower or replacement Lender obligated to pay any applicable processing or recordation fee) with such Non-Extending Lender, pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lenders shall, effective on or before the applicable Maturity Date for such Non-Extending Lender, assume a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date). Prior to any Non-Extending Lender being replaced by one or more Additional Commitment Lenders pursuant hereto, such Non-Extending Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, by giving irrevocable notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (which notice shall set forth such Lender's new Maturity Date), to become an Extending Lender. The Administrative Agent may effect such amendments to this Agreement as are reasonably necessary to provide for any such extensions with the consent of the Borrower but without the consent of any other Lenders.
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
(e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed to extend their Maturity Date and the new or increased Commitments of any Additional Commitment Lenders is more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date, then, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date that is one year after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement and shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement as a Lender hereunder and shall have the obligations of a Lender hereunder.
Minimum Extension Requirement
(f) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no more than two (2) extensions of the Maturity Date shall be permitted hereunder and (y) any extension of any Maturity Date pursuant to this Section 2.24 shall not be effective with respect to any Lender unless.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extension
(i) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the applicable Extension Date and immediately after giving effect thereto;
(ii) the representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects (or in all respects if such representation is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect) on and as of the applicable Extension Date and after giving effect thereto, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date); and
 
(iii) the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from the Borrower signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower certifying the accuracy of the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii).
(g) . On the Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, (i) the Commitment of each Non-Extending Lender shall automatically terminate and (ii) the Borrower shall repay such Non-Extending Lender in accordance with Section 2.10 (and shall pay to such Non-Extending Lender all of the other Obligations owing to it under the Credit Agreement) any amounts not assigned to an Additional Commitment Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall administer any necessary reallocation of the Revolving Credit Exposures (without regard to any minimum borrowing, pro rata borrowing and/or pro rata payment requirements contained elsewhere in this Agreement), and after giving effect thereto the Borrower shall prepay any Revolving Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 2.16) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Maturity Date for Non-Extending Lenders
(h) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.18 or Section 9.02 to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, as the case may be, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. to the Disclosure Letter (as supplemented from time to time) identifies each Subsidiary, if such Subsidiary is a Material Subsidiary that is a Domestic Subsidiary, the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, as the case may be, the percentage of issued and outstanding shares of each class in its capital or other equity interests owned by the Borrower and the other Subsidiaries and, if such percentage is not 100% (excluding directors' qualifying shares as required by law), a description of each class issued and outstanding. All of the outstanding shares in its capital and other equity interests of each Subsidiary are validly issued and outstanding and fully paid and nonassessable and all such shares and other equity interests indicated on to the Disclosure Letter as owned by the Borrower or another Subsidiary are owned, beneficially, legally and/or of record, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Encumbrances. Except as indicated on to the Disclosure Letter, as of the Effective Date, there are no outstanding commitments or other obligations of any Subsidiary to issue, and no options, warrants or other rights of any Person to acquire, any shares of any class in its capital or other equity interests of any Subsidiary.
Organization; Powers; Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.01
Schedule 3.01
Schedule 3.01
 
SECTION 3.02. . The Transactions are within each Loan Party's corporate or other powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder or shareholder action. The Loan Documents to which each Loan Party is a party have been duly executed and delivered by such Loan Party and constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 3.03. . The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any Loan Party or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, material agreement or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
SECTION 3.04. . (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2012 reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter and the portion of the fiscal year ended October 26, 2012, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change
(b) Since April 27, 2012, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. . (a) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Properties
(b) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and, to the Borrower's knowledge, the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.06. . (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened in writing against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation, Labor Matters and Environmental Matters
 
(b) There are no labor controversies pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened in writing against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, none of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
SECTION 3.07. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except, in each case, where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is party or subject to any law, regulation, rule or order, or any obligation under any agreement or instrument, that has had, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements;
SECTION 3.08. . Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Status
SECTION 3.09. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
SECTION 3.10. . No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
SECTION 3.11. . The Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, when taken together with the Borrower's filings with the SEC, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. None of the written reports, financial statements, certificates or other written information (other than projections or forward-involving information and information of a general economic or industry specific nature) furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains, when furnished and taken as a whole, and taken as a whole with the Borrower's filings with the SEC, any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not materially misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information or results, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time (it being understood that such projected financial information are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies and that no assurances can be given that any particular projected financial information will be realized and that variances between actual results and projected financial results can be material).
Disclosure
provided
 
SECTION 3.12. No part of the proceeds of any Loan have been used or will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of Section 6.02 or Section 6.03 or subject to any restriction contained in any Loan Document will be "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U.
Federal Reserve Regulations.
SECTION 3.13. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
No Default.
SECTION 3.14. (a) Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, any of their respective Affiliates over which any of the foregoing exercises management control (each, a "") is a Prohibited Person, and the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Borrower, such Controlled Affiliates are in compliance with all applicable orders, rules and regulations of OFAC.
USA PATRIOT Act.
Controlled Affiliate
(b) Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, any of their respective Controlled Affiliates: (i) is targeted by United States or multilateral economic or trade sanctions currently in force; (ii) is owned or controlled by, or acts on behalf of, any Person that is targeted by United States or multilateral economic or trade sanctions currently in force; or (iii) is named, identified or described on any list of Persons with whom United States Persons may not conduct business, including any such blocked persons list, designated nationals list, denied persons list, entity list, debarred party list, unverified list, sanctions list or other such lists published or maintained by the United States, including OFAC, the United States Department of Commerce or the United States Department of State.
SECTION 3.15. (a) None of the Borrower's or its Subsidiaries' assets constitute property of, or are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person targeted by economic or trade sanctions under United States law, including but not limited to, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C.  1701 et seq., The Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq. (the ""), any of the foreign assets control regulations of the Treasury (31 C.F.R., Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) (the "") or any enabling legislation or regulations promulgated thereunder or executive order relating thereto (which includes, without limitation, (i) Executive Order No. 13224, effective as of September 24, 2001, and relating to Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transaction With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001)) (the "") and (ii) the USA PATRIOT Act), if the result of such ownership would be that any Loan made by any Lender would be in violation of law (""); (b) no Embargoed Person has any interest of any nature whatsoever in the Borrower if the result of such interest would be that any Loan would be in violation of law; (c) the Borrower has not engaged in business with Embargoed Persons if the result of such business would be that any Loan made by any Lender would be in violation of law; and (d) neither the Borrower nor any Controlled Affiliate (i) is or will become a "blocked person" as described in the Executive Order, the Trading With the Enemy Act or the Foreign Assets Control Regulations or (ii) engages or will engage in any dealings or transactions, or be otherwise associated, with any such "blocked person". For purposes of determining whether or not a representation is true under this Section 3.15, the Borrower shall not be required to make any investigation into (i) the ownership of publicly traded stock or other publicly traded securities or (ii) the beneficial ownership of any collective investment fund.
Embargoed Persons.
Trading With the Enemy Act
Foreign Assets Control Regulations
Executive Order
Embargoed Person
 
SECTION 4.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received (i) from each party hereto either (A) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (B) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement and (ii) from each initial Subsidiary Guarantor either (A) a counterpart of the Subsidiary Guaranty signed on behalf of such Subsidiary Guarantor or (B) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or electronic transmission of a signed signature page of the Subsidiary Guaranty) that such Subsidiary Guarantor has signed a counterpart of the Subsidiary Guaranty.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, PC, counsel for the Loan Parties, covering such matters relating to the Loan Parties, the Loan Documents or the Transactions as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion.
(c) The Lenders shall have received (i) satisfactory audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower for the two most recent fiscal years ended prior to the Effective Date as to which such financial statements are available, (ii) satisfactory unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of the Borrower for each quarterly period ended subsequent to the date of the latest financial statements delivered pursuant to clause (i) of this paragraph as to which such financial statements are publicly available and (iii) satisfactory financial statement projections through and including the Borrower's 2017 fiscal year, together with such information as the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall reasonably request (including, without limitation, a detailed description of the assumptions used in preparing such projections).
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the incorporation or organization, existence and good standing of the initial Loan Parties, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to such Loan Parties, the Loan Documents or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel and as further described in the list of closing documents attached as .
Exhibit C
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the Chief Executive Officer or a Financial Officer, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that all governmental and third party approvals necessary or, in the reasonable discretion of the Administrative Agent, advisable in connection with the Transactions and the continuing operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been obtained and are in full force and effect.
 
(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that any syndicated credit facility currently in effect for the Borrower shall have been terminated and cancelled and all indebtedness thereunder shall have been fully repaid (except to the extent being so repaid with the initial Revolving Loans) and any and all liens thereunder shall have been terminated.
(h) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced at least one (1) Business Day prior to the Effective Date, reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
SECTION 4.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement (other than the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.04(b) and Section 3.06(a)) shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation and warranty that is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, except, in each case, to the extent such representation and warranty specifically refers to an earlier date, in which case it shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation and warranty that is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) as of such earlier date.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Financial Statements and Other Information
 
(a) within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized international standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification, explanatory paragraph or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a compliance certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower in the form of hereto (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and is continuing and, if a Default has occurred and is continuing, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.05 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
Exhibit E
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the SEC, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be;
(e) promptly after Moody's or S&P shall have announced a change in the rating established or deemed to have been established for the Index Debt, written notice of such rating change; and
(f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Reports or financial information required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.01(a), 5.01(b) or 5.01(d) (to the extent any such financial statements, reports, proxy statements or other materials are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which Borrower posts such report or provides a link thereto on its website on the internet; provided that Borrower shall provide paper copies to the Administrative Agent of the compliance certificates required by Section 5.01(c). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of any financial statement referred to in Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent requests the Borrower to furnish such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering such paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent.
 
SECTION 5.02. . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03.
Existence; Conduct of Business
provided
SECTION 5.04. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
SECTION 5.05. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
SECTION 5.06. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made in all material respects and sufficient to prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested (but not more than once per calendar year unless an Event of Default exists). Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Borrower nor its Subsidiaries shall be required to disclose or discuss, or permit the inspection, examination or making of extracts of any document, book, record or other matter that (i) constitutes non-financial trade secrets or non-financial proprietary information, (ii) in respect of which disclosure to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or their representatives is then prohibited by applicable law or any agreement binding on Borrower or its Subsidiaries or (iii) is protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product privilege.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
 
SECTION 5.07. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority (including without limitation Environmental Laws), and all agreements and other contractual instruments, applicable to it or its property, in each case except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Contractual Obligations
SECTION 5.08. . The proceeds of the Loans will be used only to finance the working capital needs, and for general corporate purposes, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of Section 6.02 or Section 6.03 or subject to any restriction contained in any Loan Document will be "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 5.09. . On the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause each Material Subsidiary that is a Domestic Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor. Subsequent to the Effective Date, as promptly as possible but in any event within thirty (30) days (or such later date as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent) after any Domestic Subsidiary qualifies as a Material Subsidiary required to become, or is designated by the Borrower as, a Subsidiary Guarantor, the Borrower shall provide the Administrative Agent with written notice thereof setting forth information in reasonable detail describing the material assets of such Person and shall cause each such Subsidiary to deliver to the Administrative Agent a joinder to the Subsidiary Guaranty (in the form contemplated thereby) pursuant to which such Subsidiary agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of thereof, such Subsidiary Guaranty to be accompanied by appropriate corporate resolutions, other corporate documentation and legal opinions in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Subsidiary Guaranty
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . The Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Subsidiary Indebtedness
(a) the Obligations and any other Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents;
 
(b) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof and set forth in to the Disclosure Letter and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements;
Schedule 6.01
(c) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(d) Guarantees by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(e) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvements of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets (and additions, accessions, parts, improvement and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements; that such Indebtedness is incurred prior to or within 120 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement; and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
provided
(f) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof; that such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary, and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements;
provided
(g) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of letters of credit, bank guarantees and bankers' acceptances;
(h) Indebtedness in respect of Swap Agreements;
(i) Indebtedness with respect to surety, appeal, indemnity, performance or other similar bonds in the ordinary course of business or with respect to agreements providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price, earn-out payments, earnest money or similar obligations in connection with any acquisitions, or any dispositions permitted by Section 6.03 or other uses provided for in clause (d) of the definition of Permitted Encumbrances;
(j) Indebtedness arising from the honoring of a check, draft or similar instrument against insufficient funds or from the endorsement of instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business;
(k) customer deposits and advance payments received in the ordinary course of business from customers for goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business;
 
(l) Indebtedness consisting of (i) the financing of insurance premiums or (ii) take-or-pay obligations contained in supply agreements, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(m) Indebtedness of Subsidiaries which are not Loan Parties in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the greater of (i) $400,000,000 and (ii) 5% of Consolidated Total Assets (calculated as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter and determined at the time of the incurrence of such Indebtedness by reference to the Borrower's financial statements most recently delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) or, if prior to the date of the delivery of the first financial statements to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), the most recent financial statements referred to in Section 3.04(a)) at any time outstanding; and
(n) other Indebtedness of any Subsidiary which is a Loan Party so long as, at the time of the incurrence thereof and after giving effect thereto (on a pro forma basis), the Borrower is in pro forma compliance with the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted under Section 6.05(a).
SECTION 6.02. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it (and for purposes hereof, any capital stock issued by the Borrower which is held by the Borrower as treasury stock shall not be deemed to be property or an asset of the Borrower and shall not be subject to this Section 6.02), except:
Liens
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
(b) any Lien on any property or asset (and any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in to the Disclosure Letter; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset (other than any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such obligations with obligations of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements;
Schedule 6.02
provided
(c) any Lien existing on any property or asset (and any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset (and any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets (other than any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such obligations with obligations of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements;
provided
 
(d) Liens on fixed or capital assets (and additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof) acquired, constructed or improved by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements, (ii) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within one hundred twenty (120) days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iv) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than any additions, accessions, parts, improvements and attachments thereto and the proceeds thereof);
provided
(e) customary bankers' Liens and rights of setoff arising by operation of law or contract and incurred on deposits made in the ordinary course of business or on deposit or securities accounts;
(f) assignments of the right to receive income effected (i) as a part of the sale of a Subsidiary or a business unit or (ii) for factoring in the ordinary course of business;
(g) Liens on any cash earnest money deposit made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with any letter of intent or acquisition agreement that is not prohibited by this Agreement;
(h) customary Liens granted in favor of a trustee to secure fees and other amounts owing to such trustee under an indenture or other agreement pursuant to Indebtedness not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement;
(i) Liens against properties leased or covered under Borrower's synthetic lease facilities to secure Borrower's obligations under the documents governing such facilities, or granted against any such property to secure Indebtedness incurred to repay any such facility or purchase any such property and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such obligations with obligations of a similar type that does not increase the then outstanding principal amount thereof except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such extensions, renewals, refinancings or replacements;
(j) Liens securing reasonable and customary fees for services in favor of banks, securities intermediaries or other depository institutions;
(k) Liens on cash collateral and other property delivered to or received by an issuer or bank in connection with a letter of credit, bank guarantee or bankers' acceptance, securing reimbursement obligations with respect to such letters of credit, bank guarantees and bankers' acceptances, and Liens on cash collateral or margin posted for obligations arising under Swap Agreements, in each case, that are not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement and are in respect of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(l) Liens on insurance proceeds securing the premium of financed insurance proceeds;; and
 
(m) other Liens on assets securing Indebtedness or other obligations not prohibited hereunder in an aggregate amount not to exceed the greater of (i) $400,000,000 and (ii) 5% of Consolidated Total Assets (calculated as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter and determined at the time of the granting of such Lien by reference to the Borrower's financial statements most recently delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) or, if prior to the date of the delivery of the first financial statements to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), the most recent financial statements referred to in Section 3.04(a)) at any time outstanding.
SECTION 6.03. . (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into, consolidate with, or otherwise be acquired by, any other Person, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose (including pursuant to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction) of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any of its Subsidiaries (in each case, whether now owned or here-after acquired, and for purposes hereof, any capital stock issued by the Borrower which is held by the Borrower as treasury stock shall not be deemed to be property or an asset of the Borrower and shall not be subject to this Section 6.03), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Subsidiary may merge into a Loan Party in a transaction in which the surviving entity is or becomes a Loan Party (provided that any such merger involving the Borrower must result in the Borrower as the surviving entity), (ii) any wholly-owned Subsidiary may merge into or consolidate with any wholly-owned Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a wholly-owned Subsidiary and no Person other than the Borrower or a wholly-owned Subsidiary receives any consideration, provided that if any such merger described in this clause (ii) shall involve a Loan Party, the surviving entity of such merger shall be or shall become a Loan Party, (iii) any Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to a Loan Party or any wholly-owned Subsidiary pursuant to a transaction not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement, (iv) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower, (v) the Borrower may merge with any other Person so long as the Borrower is the surviving entity, (vi) any Subsidiary may merge with any other Person so long as the surviving entity is, in the case of a Subsidiary Guarantor, the Subsidiary Guarantor, and in all other cases, a wholly-owned Subsidiary and (vii) any Subsidiary other than a Subsidiary Guarantor may merge into, Borrower or any Subsidiary may dispose of all or substantially all of the stock of any of its Subsidiaries other than a Material Subsidiary to, and Borrower or any Subsidiary may dispose of assets to, any other Person so long as Borrower delivers a certificate to the Administrative Agent demonstrating pro forma compliance with Section 6.05 after giving effect to such transaction.
Fundamental Changes and Asset Sales
(b) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related thereto.
(c) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change its fiscal year to end on a day other than as such fiscal year end is currently determined or change the Borrower's method of determining fiscal quarters.
SECTION 6.04. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among the Borrower and its wholly-owned Subsidiaries not involving any other Affiliate that is not a Subsidiary, (c) indemnification arrangements, employee agreements, compensation arrangements (including equity-based compensation) and reimbursement of expenses of current or former officers and directors, and (d) extraordinary retention, bonus or similar arrangements approved by the Borrower's board of directors (or a committee thereof).
Transactions with Affiliates
 
SECTION 6.05. .
Financial Covenants
(a) . The Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio to be greater than 3.00 to 1.00.
Maximum Leverage Ratio
(b) . The Borrower will not permit the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than 3.50 to 1.00.
Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three (3) Business Days;
(c) any written representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Loan Party in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any written report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification thereof or waiver thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) (i) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a), 5.03 (with respect to the Borrower's existence), 5.08 or 5.09 or in Article VI or (ii) any Loan Document shall for any reason not be or shall cease to be in full force and effect or is declared to be null and void, or the Borrower or any Subsidiary takes any action for the purpose of terminating, repudiating or rescinding any Loan Document or any of its obligations thereunder;
(e) any Loan Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in any Loan Document (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article) and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of the Required Lenders);
(f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment of principal or interest in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace period;
 
(g) with respect to any Material Indebtedness, any event or condition occurs that results in such Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity (other than by regularly scheduled redemptions or by conversion of any convertible debt instrument pursuant to its terms unless such redemption or conversion results from a default thereunder or an event of the type that constitutes an Event of Default) or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of such Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause such Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to (x) secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness, (y) any redemption, repurchase, conversion or settlement with respect to any Convertible Debt Security pursuant to its terms unless such redemption, repurchase, conversion or settlement results from a default thereunder or an event of the type that constitutes an Event of Default or (z) any early payment requirement or unwinding or termination with respect to any Swap Agreement, including any Bond Hedge;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for sixty (60) days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 (to the extent not covered by a creditworthy insurer that has not denied coverage), shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor holding a judgment in excess of $100,000,000 to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
 
(m) a Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other Obligations accrued under the Loan Documents, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other Obligations accrued under the Loan Documents, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, exercise any rights and remedies provided to the Administrative Agent under the Loan Documents or at law or equity.
Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf, including execution of the other Loan Documents, and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of the Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth in the Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated by the Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth in the Loan Documents, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection with any Loan Document, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in any Loan Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere in any Loan Document, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for one or more of the Loan Parties), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty (30) days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that the extensions of credit made hereunder are commercial loans and letters of credit and not investments in a business enterprise or securities. Each Lender further represents that it is engaged in making, acquiring or holding commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business and has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement as a Lender, and to make, acquire or hold Loans hereunder. Each Lender shall, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information (which may contain material, non-public information within the meaning of the United States securities laws concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates) as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder and in deciding whether or to the extent to which it will continue as a lender or assign or otherwise transfer its rights, interests and obligations hereunder.
 
None of the Lenders, if any, identified in this Agreement as a Co-Syndication Agent shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to the relevant Lenders in their respective capacities as Co-Syndication Agents as it makes with respect to the Administrative Agent in the preceding paragraph.
The Lenders are not partners or co-venturers, and no Lender shall be liable for the acts or omissions of, or (except as otherwise set forth herein in case of the Administrative Agent) authorized to act for, any other Lender. The Administrative Agent shall have the exclusive right on behalf of the Lenders to enforce the payment of the principal of and interest on any Loan after the date such principal or interest has become due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 9.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(i) if to the Borrower, to it at 495 East Java Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089, Attention of Christopher Afarian, Treasurer (Telecopy No. (408) 822-4455);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, (A) in the case of Borrowings denominated in Dollars, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Teresita Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 292-9533) and (B) in the case of Borrowings denominated in Foreign Currencies, to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP, Attention of The Manager, Loan & Agency Services (Telecopy No. 44 207 777 2360), and in each case with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 560 Mission Street, 19
th
Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, Attention of Gerardo B. Loera (Telecopy No. (310) 975-1334);
(iii) if to the Issuing Bank, to it at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Teresita Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 292-9533);
(iv) if to the Swingline Lender, to it at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention of Teresita Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 292-9533); and
 
(v) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 9.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
(b) Except as provided in Section 2.20 (with respect to an Incremental Term Loan Amendment) or in Section 2.24 (with respect to the extension of the Maturity Date), neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender (it being understood that, solely with the consent of the parties prescribed by Section 2.20 to be parties to an Incremental Term Loan Amendment, Incremental Term Loans may be included in the determination of Required Lenders on substantially the same basis as the Commitments and the Revolving Loans are included on the Effective Date) or (vi) release all or substantially all of the Subsidiary Guarantors from their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be (it being understood that any change to Section 2.23 shall require the consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no consent with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification of this Agreement shall be required of any Defaulting Lender, except with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first proviso of this paragraph and then only in the event such Defaulting Lender shall be directly affected by such amendment, waiver or other modification.
provided
provided
further
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement and any other Loan Document may be amended (or amended and restated) with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (x) to add one or more credit facilities (in addition to any increase in Commitments pursuant to Section 2.20 and the Incremental Term Loans pursuant to an Incremental Term Loan Amendment) to this Agreement and to permit extensions of credit from time to time outstanding thereunder and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the Revolving Loans, Incremental Term Loans and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof and (y) to include appropriately the Lenders holding such credit facilities in any determination of the Required Lenders and Lenders; provided that any such amendment or restatement shall require that any waivers or amendments of Section 4.02 shall also require the written consent or approval of Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments in respect of Revolving Loans representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments in respect of Revolving Loans.
(d) If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of "each Lender" or "each Lender directly affected thereby," the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of other necessary Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is necessary but not obtained being referred to herein as a ""), then the Borrower may elect to replace a Non-Consenting Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, provided that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Loans and other Obligations due to the Non-Consenting Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Non-Consenting Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of clause (b) of Section 9.04, and (ii) the Borrower shall pay to such Non-Consenting Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (1) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Non-Consenting Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Non-Consenting Lender under Sections 2.15 and 2.17, and (2) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 2.16 had the Loans of such Non-Consenting Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.
Non-Consenting Lender
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein the Administrative Agent may, with the consent of the Borrower only, amend, modify or supplement this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents to cure any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency.
SECTION 9.03. . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one primary counsel for the Administrative Agent and one local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction, in connection with the syndication and distribution (including, without limitation, via the internet or through a service such as Intralinks) of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of one primary counsel for the Administrative Agent and one additional local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction for the Administrative Agent, and one counsel for all the Lenders other than the Administrative Agent, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement and any other Loan Document, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
 
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (which, in the case of fees, charges and disbursements of counsel, shall be limited to the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of (i) one primary counsel, and one additional local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction, for the Administrative Agent, its Affiliates and related Indemnitees (taken as a whole) and (ii) one additional counsel, and one additional counsel in each applicable jurisdiction, for all the Lenders and other Indemnitees (taken as a whole)) incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from (x) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (y) the material breach by such Indemnitee of its express obligations under this Agreement pursuant to a claim initiated by the Borrower or (z) any dispute solely among Indemnitees (not arising as a result of an act or omission by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) other than claims against any of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders or any of their Affiliates in its capacity or in fulfilling its role as the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender, a lead arranger, a bookrunner, a co-syndication agent or any similar role under this Agreement). Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agrees, on behalf of itself and its related Indemnitees, that any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, respectively, and its related Indemnitee in connection with a claim or proceeding for which an indemnity claim is made against the Borrower pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be so entered into in good faith and not on an arbitrary or capricious basis. This Section 9.03(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses, claims or damages arising from any non-Tax claim.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount (it being understood that the Borrower's failure to pay any such amount shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof); that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee (i) for any damages arising from the use by others of information or other materials obtained through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems (including the Internet), or (ii) on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
SECTION 9.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of:
(A) the Administrative Agent;
(B) the Issuing Bank; and
(C) the Borrower (provided that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within ten (10) Business Days after having received notice thereof); , , that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee.
provided
further
 
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, provided that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, such fee to be paid by either the assigning Lender or the assignee Lender or shared between such Lenders;
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its affiliates, the Loan Parties and their Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws; and
(E) the assignee shall not be a natural person, the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount (and stated interest) of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
(c) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged; (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations; and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.17(f) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.17(f) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; provided that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.18 and 2.19 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.15 or 2.17, with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a Change in Law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(d) as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under the Loan Documents (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans, Letters of Credit or its other obligations under any Loan Document) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan, Letter of Credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
Participant
provided
Participant Register
provided
 
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Loan Parties in the Loan Documents and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any provision hereof or thereof.
Survival
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy, e-mailed .pdf or any other electronic means that reproduces an image of the actual executed signature page shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
 
SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of any Loan Document held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions thereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final and in whatever currency denominated) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor against any of and all of the Obligations held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
SECTION 9.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process; Waiver of Immunity
(b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County, Borough of Manhattan, and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any Loan Party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 9.10. . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.12. . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) (in which case each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agree to the extent not prohibited by applicable law, rule, regulation or order, to inform the Borrower promptly of the disclosure thereof and to the extent practicable, prior thereto), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws, rules or regulations or by any subpoena or order or similar legal process (in which case each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agree to the extent not prohibited by applicable law, rule, regulation or order, to inform the Borrower promptly of the disclosure thereof and to the extent practicable, prior thereto), (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies under this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations or to any credit insurance provider relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) on a confidential basis to the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers or other market identifiers with respect to the credit facilities provided hereunder, (h) with the consent of the Borrower or (i) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or any agreement contemplated by clause (f) of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source that is not, to the knowledge of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender respectively, subject to confidentiality obligations owing to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and prohibiting such disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender shall be required to provide notice of any permitted disclosures made in connection with any regulatory review of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender by any governmental agency or regulatory body with jurisdiction over the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or such Subsidiary. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
 
EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.12 FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS AFFILIATES, THE LOAN PARTIES AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES) AND ITS SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 9.13. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies each Loan Party that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Loan Party, which information includes the name and address of such Loan Party and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Loan Party in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
Act
SECTION 9.14. . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Lenders and their Affiliates, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) each of the Lenders and their Affiliates is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except, in the case of a Lender, those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) each of the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against each of the Lenders and their Affiliates with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
SECTION 9.15. .
Release of Subsidiary Guarantors
(a) A Subsidiary Guarantor shall automatically be released from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty upon the consummation of any transaction permitted by this Agreement as a result of which such Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary; that, if so required by this Agreement, the Required Lenders shall have consented to such transaction and the terms of such consent shall not have provided otherwise. In connection with any termination or release pursuant to this Section, the Administrative Agent shall (and is hereby irrevocably authorized by each Lender to) execute and deliver to any Loan Party, at such Loan Party's expense, all documents that such Loan Party shall reasonably request to evidence such termination or release. Any execution and delivery of documents pursuant to this Section shall be without recourse to or warranty by the Administrative Agent.
provided
(b) Further, the Administrative Agent may (and is hereby irrevocably authorized by each Lender to), upon the request of the Borrower, release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty if such Subsidiary Guarantor is no longer a Material Subsidiary.
(c) At such time as the principal and interest on the Loans, all LC Disbursements, the fees, expenses and other amounts payable under the Loan Documents and the other Obligations (other than obligations under any Swap Agreement or any Banking Services Agreement, and other Obligations expressly stated to survive such payment and termination) shall have been paid in full in cash, the Commitments shall have been terminated and no Letters of Credit shall be outstanding, the Subsidiary Guaranty and all obligations (other than those expressly stated to survive such termination) of each Subsidiary Guarantor thereunder shall automatically terminate, all without delivery of any instrument or performance of any act by any Person.
SECTION 9.16. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the " and ") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment
Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
Effective Date:             , 20            [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The Assignee agrees to deliver to the Administrative Agent a completed Administrative Questionnaire in which the Assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, the Loan Parties and their related parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the Assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
Consented to and Accepted:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent and Issuing Bank
 
 
 
 
[Consented to:]
(3)
 
 
 
 
ANNEX I
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2 . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS GUARANTY (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "") is made as of [            ], 20            , by and among each of the undersigned (the "" and along with any additional Subsidiaries of the Borrower which become parties to this Guaranty by executing a supplement hereto in the form attached as Annex I, the "") in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations (as defined below), under the Credit Agreement referred to below.
Guaranty
Initial Guarantors
Guarantors
WHEREAS, NetApp, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the institutions from time to time parties thereto as lenders (the ""), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent (the ""), have entered into a certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as the same may be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated, and as in effect from time to time, the ""), providing, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, for extensions of credit and other financial accommodations to be made by the Lenders to the Borrower;
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, it is a condition precedent to the extensions of credit by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement that each of the Guarantors (constituting all of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower required to execute this Guaranty pursuant to Section 5.09 of the Credit Agreement) execute and deliver this Guaranty, whereby each of the Guarantors shall guarantee the payment when due of all Obligations; and
WHEREAS, in consideration of the direct and indirect financial and other support that the Borrower has provided, and such direct and indirect financial and other support as the Borrower may in the future provide, to the Guarantors, and in order to induce the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to enter into the Credit Agreement, each of the Guarantors is willing to guarantee the Obligations of the Borrower;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein have, as used herein, the respective meanings provided for therein.
Definitions
SECTION 2. . Each of the Guarantors represents and warrants (which representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been renewed at the time of the making, conversion or continuation of any Loan or issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit) that:
Representations, Warranties and Covenants
(A) It is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company duly and properly incorporated or organized, as the case may be, validly existing and (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, organization or formation and has all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted, except to the extent that the failure to have such authority could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(B) It (to the extent applicable) has the requisite power and authority and legal right to execute and deliver this Guaranty and to perform its obligations hereunder. The execution and delivery by each Guarantor of this Guaranty and the performance by each of its obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by proper proceedings, and this Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor, respectively, enforceable against such Guarantor, respectively, in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
(C) Neither the execution and delivery by it of this Guaranty, nor the consummation by it of the transactions herein contemplated, nor compliance by it with the provisions hereof will (i) violate any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding on it or its articles or certificate of incorporation (or equivalent charter documents), limited liability company or partnership agreement, certificate of partnership, articles or certificate of organization, by-laws, or operating agreement or other management agreement, as the case may be, or the provisions of any indenture, material instrument or material agreement to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or is subject, or by which it, or its property, is bound, or (ii) conflict with, or constitute a default under, or result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien in, of or on its property pursuant to the terms of, any such indenture, material instrument or material agreement (other than any Loan Document). No order, consent, adjudication, approval, license, authorization, or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, or other action in respect of any governmental or public body or authority, or any subdivision thereof, which has not been obtained by it, is required to be obtained by it in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by it of, or the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against it of, this Guaranty.
In addition to the foregoing, each of the Guarantors covenants that until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable under the Credit Agreement have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, it will, and, if necessary, will enable the Borrower to, fully comply with those covenants and agreements of the Borrower applicable to such Guarantor set forth in the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3. . Each of the Guarantors hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, jointly with the other Guarantors and severally, the full and punctual payment and performance when due (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations, including, without limitation, (i) the principal of and interest on each Loan made to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, (ii) any obligations of the Borrower to reimburse LC Disbursements (""), (iii) all obligations of the Borrower owing to any Lender or any affiliate of any Lender under any Swap Agreement or Banking Services Agreement, (iv) all other amounts payable by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (v) the punctual and faithful performance, keeping, observance, and fulfillment by the Borrower of all of the agreements, conditions, covenants, and obligations of the Borrower contained in the Loan Documents (all of the foregoing being referred to collectively as the "" and the holders from time to time of the Guaranteed Obligations being referred to collectively as the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for the avoidance of doubt, obligations arising from Bond Hedges and letter of credit facilities that are not under the Credit Agreement shall not be considered Guaranteed Obligations. Upon (x) the failure by the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, as applicable, to pay punctually any such amount or perform such obligation, and (y) such failure continuing beyond any applicable grace or notice and cure period, each of the Guarantors agrees that it shall forthwith on demand pay such amount or perform such obligation at the place and in the manner specified in the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or the relevant Loan Document, as the case may be. Each of the Guarantors hereby agrees that this Guaranty is an absolute, irrevocable and unconditional guaranty of payment and is not a guaranty of collection.
The Guaranty
Reimbursement Obligations
Guaranteed Obligations
Holders of Guaranteed Obligations
 
SECTION 4. . The obligations of each of the Guarantors hereunder shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by:
Guaranty Unconditional
(A) any extension, renewal, settlement, indulgence, compromise, waiver or release of or with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof or any agreement relating thereto, or with respect to any obligation of any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether (in any such case) by operation of law or otherwise, or any failure or omission to enforce any right, power or remedy with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof or any agreement relating thereto, or with respect to any obligation of any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(B) any modification or amendment of or supplement to the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, any such amendment which may increase the amount of, or the interest rates applicable to, any of the Obligations guaranteed hereby;
(C) any release, surrender, compromise, settlement, waiver, subordination or modification, with or without consideration, of any collateral securing the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, any other guaranties with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, or any other obligation of any person or entity with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, or any nonperfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations;
(D) any change in the corporate, partnership or other existence, structure or ownership of the Borrower or any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting the Borrower or any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any of their respective assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of the Borrower or any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(E) the existence of any claim, setoff or other rights which the Guarantors may have at any time against the Borrower, any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Administrative Agent, any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations or any other Person, whether in connection herewith or in connection with any unrelated transactions; that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;
provided
 
(F) the enforceability or validity of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof or the genuineness, enforceability or validity of any agreement relating thereto or with respect to any collateral securing the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, or any other invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against the Borrower or any other guarantor of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, for any reason related to the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any provision of applicable law, decree, order or regulation of any jurisdiction purporting to prohibit the payment by the Borrower or any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations, of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or otherwise affecting any term of any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(G) the failure of the Administrative Agent to take any steps to perfect and maintain any security interest in, or to preserve any rights to, any security or collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations, if any;
(H) the election by, or on behalf of, any one or more of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, in any proceeding instituted under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) (the ""), of the application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code;
Bankruptcy Code
(I) any borrowing or grant of a security interest by the Borrower, as debtor-in-possession, under Section 364 of the Bankruptcy Code;
(J) the disallowance, under Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code, of all or any portion of the claims of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations or the Administrative Agent for repayment of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(K) the failure of any other guarantor to sign or become party to this Guaranty or any amendment, change, or reaffirmation hereof by or with any other guarantor; or
(L) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by the Borrower, any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Administrative Agent, any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this Section 4, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of any Guarantor's obligations hereunder except as provided in Section 5.
SECTION 5. . Each of the Guarantors' obligations hereunder shall constitute a continuing and irrevocable guarantee of all Guaranteed Obligations now or hereafter existing and shall remain in full force and effect until all Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) shall have been paid in full in cash and the Commitments and all Letters of Credit (other than Extended Letters of Credit) issued under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated or expired (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed. If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan, any Reimbursement Obligation or any other amount payable by the Borrower or any other party under the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or any other Loan Document (including a payment effected through exercise of a right of setoff) is rescinded, or is or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by a Holder of Guaranteed Obligations in its discretion), each of the Guarantors' obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated as though such payment had been due but not made at such time. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that each of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be due and payable in the same currency as such Guaranteed Obligation is denominated, but if currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues such currency with the result that such currency (the "") no longer exists or the relevant Guarantor is not able to make payment in such Original Currency, then all payments to be made by such Guarantor hereunder in such currency shall instead be made when due in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar Amount (as of the date of payment) of such payment due, it being the intention of the parties hereto that each Guarantor takes all risks of the imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations.
Continuing Guarantee; Discharge Only Upon Payment In Full: Reinstatement In Certain Circumstances
Original Currency
 
SECTION 6. .
General Waivers; Additional Waivers
(A) . Each of the Guarantors irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand or action on delinquency, protest, the benefit of any statutes of limitations and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against the Borrower, any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any other Person.
General Waivers
(B) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each of the Guarantors hereby absolutely, unconditionally, knowingly, and expressly waives to the fullest extent permitted by law:
Additional Waivers
(i) any right it may have to revoke this Guaranty as to future indebtedness arising under the Loan Documents;
(ii) (a) notice of acceptance hereof; (b) notice of any loans or other financial accommodations made or extended under the Loan Documents or the creation or existence of any Guaranteed Obligations; (c) notice of the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations, subject, however, to each Guarantor's right to make inquiry of Administrative Agent and Holders of Guaranteed Obligations to ascertain the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations at any reasonable time; (d) notice of any adverse change in the financial condition of the Borrower or of any other fact that might increase such Guarantor's risk hereunder; (e) notice of presentment for payment, demand, protest, and notice thereof as to any instruments among the Loan Documents; (f) notice of any Default or Event of Default; and (g) all other notices (except if such notice is specifically required to be given to such Guarantor hereunder or under the Loan Documents) and demands to which each Guarantor might otherwise be entitled;
(iii) its right, if any, to require the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations to institute suit against, or to exhaust any rights and remedies which the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations has or may have against, the other Guarantors or any third party; and each Guarantor further waives any defense arising by reason of any disability or other defense (other than the defense that the Guaranteed Obligations shall have been fully and finally performed) of the other Guarantors or by reason of the cessation from any cause whatsoever of the liability of the other Guarantors in respect thereof;
(iv) (a) any rights to assert against the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations any defense (legal or equitable), set-off, counterclaim, or claim which such Guarantor may now or at any time hereafter have against the other Guarantors or any other party liable to the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations; (b) any defense, set-off, counterclaim, or claim, of any kind or nature, arising directly or indirectly from the present or future lack of perfection, sufficiency, validity, or enforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations or any security therefor; (c) any defense such Guarantor has to performance hereunder, and any right such Guarantor has to be exonerated, arising by reason of: the impairment or suspension of the Administrative Agent's and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations' rights or remedies against the other Guarantors; the alteration by the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations of the Guaranteed Obligations; any discharge of the other Guarantors' obligations to the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations by operation of law as a result of the Administrative Agent's and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations' intervention or omission; or the acceptance by the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations of anything in partial satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations; and (d) the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting such Guarantor's liability hereunder or the enforcement thereof, and any act which shall defer or delay the operation of any statute of limitations applicable to the Guaranteed Obligations shall similarly operate to defer or delay the operation of such statute of limitations applicable to such Guarantor's liability hereunder; and
 
(v) any defense arising by reason of or deriving from (a) any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations; or (b) any election by the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations under Section 1111(b) of Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as now and hereafter in effect (or any successor statute), to limit the amount of, or any collateral securing, its claim against the Guarantors.
SECTION 7. .
Subordination of Subrogation; Subordination of Intercompany Indebtedness
(A) . Until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) shall have been paid in full in cash, the Guarantors (i) shall have no right of subrogation with respect to such Guaranteed Obligations and (ii) waive any right to enforce any remedy which the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, the Issuing Bank or the Administrative Agent now have or may hereafter have against the Borrower, any endorser or any guarantor of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Person, and, until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) have been paid in full in cash, the Guarantors waive any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any security or collateral given to the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent to secure the payment or performance of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other liability of the Borrower to the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations or the Issuing Bank. Should any Guarantor have the right, notwithstanding the foregoing, to exercise its subrogation rights, each Guarantor hereby expressly and irrevocably (A) subordinates any and all rights at law or in equity to subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification or set off that such Guarantor may have to the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) and (B) waives any and all defenses available to a surety, guarantor or accommodation co-obligor until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) are paid in full in cash. Each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that this subordination is intended to benefit the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations and shall not limit or otherwise affect such Guarantor's liability hereunder or the enforceability of this Guaranty, and that the Administrative Agent, the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations and their respective successors and assigns are intended third party beneficiaries of the waivers and agreements set forth in this Section 7(A).
Subordination of Subrogation
 
(B) . Each Guarantor agrees that any and all claims of such Guarantor against the Borrower or any other Guarantor hereunder (each an "") with respect to any "Intercompany Indebtedness" (as hereinafter defined), any endorser, obligor or any other guarantor of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, or against any of its properties shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment, in full and in cash, of all Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements); that, as long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such Guarantor may receive payments of principal and interest from any Obligor with respect to Intercompany Indebtedness. Notwithstanding any right of any Guarantor to ask, demand, sue for, take or receive any payment from any Obligor, all rights, liens and security interests of such Guarantor, whether now or hereafter arising and howsoever existing, in any assets of any other Obligor shall be and are subordinated to the rights of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations and the Administrative Agent in those assets. No Guarantor shall have any right to possession of any such asset or to foreclose upon any such asset, whether by judicial action or otherwise, unless and until all of the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) shall have been fully paid and satisfied (in cash) and the Commitments and all Letters of Credit (other than Extended Letters of Credit) issued under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated or expired (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed. If all or any part of the assets of any Obligor, or the proceeds thereof, are subject to any distribution, division or application to the creditors of such Obligor, whether partial or complete, voluntary or involuntary, and whether by reason of liquidation, bankruptcy, arrangement, receivership, assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other action or proceeding, or if the business of any such Obligor is dissolved or if substantially all of the assets of any such Obligor are sold, other than, in each case, in a transaction that is otherwise permitted under the Credit Agreement, then, and in any such event (such events being herein referred to as an ""), any payment or distribution of any kind or character, either in cash, securities or other property, which shall be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to any indebtedness of any Obligor to any Guarantor ("") shall be paid or delivered directly to the Administrative Agent for application on any of the Guaranteed Obligations, due or to become due, until such Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) shall have first been fully paid and satisfied (in cash). Should any payment, distribution, security or instrument or proceeds thereof be received by the applicable Guarantor upon or with respect to the Intercompany Indebtedness after any Insolvency Event and prior to the satisfaction of all of the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) and the termination of all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrower and the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, such Guarantor shall receive and hold the same in trust, as trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations and shall forthwith deliver the same to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, in precisely the form received (except for the endorsement or assignment of the Guarantor where necessary), for application to any of the Guaranteed Obligations, due or not due, and, until so delivered, the same shall be held in trust by the Guarantor as the property of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations. If any such Guarantor fails to make any such endorsement or assignment to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent or any of its officers or employees is irrevocably authorized to make the same. Each Guarantor agrees that until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than the contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) have been paid in full (in cash) and satisfied and the Commitments and all Letters of Credit (other than Extended Letters of Credit) issued under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated or expired (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, except as otherwise permitted by the Credit Agreement, no Guarantor will assign or transfer to any Person (other than the Administrative Agent) any claim any such Guarantor has or may have against any Obligor.
Subordination of Intercompany Indebtedness
Obligor
provided
Insolvency Event
Intercompany Indebtedness
 
SECTION 8. .
Contribution with Respect to Guaranteed Obligations
(A) To the extent that any Guarantor shall make a payment under this Guaranty (a "") which, taking into account all other Guarantor Payments then previously or concurrently made by any other Guarantor, exceeds the amount which otherwise would have been paid by or attributable to such Guarantor if each Guarantor had paid the aggregate Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) satisfied by such Guarantor Payment in the same proportion as such Guarantor's "Allocable Amount" (as defined below) (as determined immediately prior to such Guarantor Payment) bore to the aggregate Allocable Amounts of each of the Guarantors as determined immediately prior to the making of such Guarantor Payment, then, following payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) and the Commitments and all Letters of Credit (other than Extended Letters of Credit) issued under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated or expired (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, such Guarantor shall be entitled to receive contribution and indemnification payments from, and be reimbursed by, each other Guarantor for the amount of such excess, pro rata based upon their respective Allocable Amounts in effect immediately prior to such Guarantor Payment.
Guarantor Payment
(B) As of any date of determination, the "Allocable Amount" of any Guarantor shall be equal to the excess of the fair saleable value of the property of such Guarantor over the total liabilities of such Guarantor (including the maximum amount reasonably expected to become due in respect of contingent liabilities, calculated, without duplication, assuming each other Guarantor that is also liable for such contingent liability pays its ratable share thereof), giving effect to all payments made by other Guarantors as of such date in a manner to maximize the amount of such contributions.
(C) This Section 8 is intended only to define the relative rights of the Guarantors, and nothing set forth in this Section 8 is intended to or shall impair the obligations of the Guarantors, jointly and severally, to pay any amounts as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Guaranty.
(D) The parties hereto acknowledge that the rights of contribution and indemnification hereunder shall constitute assets of the Guarantor or Guarantors to which such contribution and indemnification is owing.
(E) The rights of the indemnifying Guarantors against other Guarantors under this Section 8 shall be exercisable upon the full payment of the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations and Guaranteed Obligations in respect of Swap Agreements and Banking Services Agreements) in cash and the Commitments and all Letters of Credit (other than Extended Letters of Credit) issued under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated or expired (in each case without any pending draw), or otherwise become subject to cash collateralization or other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed.
 
SECTION 9. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty, the amount guaranteed by each Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the extent, if any, required so that its obligations hereunder shall not be subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code or under any applicable state Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act, Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act or similar statute or common law. In determining the limitations, if any, on the amount of any Guarantor's obligations hereunder pursuant to the preceding sentence, it is the intention of the parties hereto that any rights of subrogation, indemnification or contribution which such Guarantor may have under this Guaranty, any other agreement or applicable law shall be taken into account.
Limitation of Guaranty
SECTION 10. . If acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or any other Loan Document is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or any other Loan Document shall nonetheless be payable by each of the Guarantors hereunder forthwith on demand by the Administrative Agent.
Stay of Acceleration
SECTION 11. . All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be given in the manner prescribed in Article IX of the Credit Agreement with respect to the Administrative Agent at its notice address therein and with respect to any Guarantor, in care of the Borrower at the address of the Borrower set forth in the Credit Agreement or such other address or telecopy number as such party may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the provisions of such Article IX.
Notices
SECTION 12. . No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any other Holder of Guaranteed Obligations in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies provided in this Guaranty, the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
No Waivers
SECTION 13. . This Guaranty is for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations and their respective successors and permitted assigns; , that no Guarantor shall have any right to assign its rights or obligations hereunder without the consent of the Required Lenders, and any such assignment in violation of this Section 13 shall be null and void; and in the event of an assignment of any amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, any Swap Agreement, any Banking Services Agreement or the other Loan Documents in accordance with the respective terms thereof, the rights hereunder, to the extent applicable to the indebtedness so assigned, may be transferred with such indebtedness. This Guaranty shall be binding upon each of the Guarantors and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
provided
SECTION 14. . Other than in connection with the addition of additional Subsidiaries, which become parties hereto by executing a supplement hereto in the form attached as Annex I, neither this Guaranty nor any provision hereof may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only in writing signed by each of the Guarantors and the Administrative Agent.
Changes in Writing
SECTION 15. . THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
 
SECTION 16. .
CONSENT TO JURISDICTION; SERVICE OF PROCESS; JURY TRIAL; IMMUNITY
(A) CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AND EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ANY GUARANTOR IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING BY ANY GUARANTOR AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL BE BROUGHT ONLY IN A COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
(B) WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER AND FURTHER WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO INTERPOSE ANY COUNTERCLAIM (OTHER THAN ANY COMPULSORY COUNTERCLAIM) RELATED TO THIS GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY IN SUCH ACTION.
(C) TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY GUARANTOR HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE ANY IMMUNITY FROM JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR FROM ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER FROM SERVICE OR NOTICE, ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID OF EXECUTION OF A JUDGMENT, EXECUTION OR OTHERWISE), EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS GUARANTY.
SECTION 17. . The parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Guaranty. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Guaranty shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Guaranty.
No Strict Construction
SECTION 18. .
Taxes, Expenses of Enforcement, etc
(A) .
Taxes
 
(i) Each payment by any Guarantor hereunder or under any promissory note or application for a Letter of Credit shall be made without withholding for any Taxes, unless such withholding is required by any law. If any Guarantor determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it is so required to withhold Taxes, then such Guarantor may so withhold and shall timely pay the full amount of withheld Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. If such Taxes are Indemnified Taxes, then the amount payable by the Guarantor shall be increased as necessary so that, net of such withholding (including such withholding applicable to additional amounts payable under this Section), the applicable Recipient receives the amount it would have received had no such withholding been made.
(ii) In addition, such Guarantor making a payment hereunder or under any promissory note or application for a Letter of Credit shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(iii) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes by any Guarantor to a Governmental Authority, such Guarantor shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(iv) The Guarantors shall jointly and severally indemnify each Recipient for any Indemnified Taxes that are paid or payable by such Recipient in connection with any Loan Document (including amounts payable under this Section 18(A)) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this Section 18(A) shall be paid within ten (10) days after the Recipient delivers to any Guarantor a certificate stating the amount of any Indemnified Taxes so payable by such Recipient. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so payable absent manifest error. Such Recipient shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the Administrative Agent. In the case of any Lender making a claim under this Section 18(A) on behalf of any of its beneficial owners, an indemnity payment under this Section 18(A) shall be due only to the extent that such Lender is able to establish that, with respect to the applicable Indemnified Taxes, such beneficial owners supplied to the applicable Persons such properly completed and executed documentation necessary to claim any applicable exemption from, or reduction of, such Indemnified Taxes.
(v) By accepting the benefits hereof, each Lender agrees that it will comply with Section 2.17(f) of the Credit Agreement.
(B) . The Guarantors agree to reimburse the Administrative Agent and the other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of one primary counsel for the Administrative Agent and one additional local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction for the Administrative Agent, and one counsel for all the Lenders other than the Administrative Agent in connection with the collection and enforcement of amounts due under the Loan Documents, including without limitation this Guaranty.
Expenses of Enforcement, Etc
SECTION 19. . At any time after all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations have become due and payable (by acceleration or otherwise), each Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent) may, without notice to any Guarantor and regardless of the acceptance of any security or collateral for the payment hereof, appropriate and apply in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement toward the payment of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations (i) any indebtedness due or to become due from such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations or the Administrative Agent to any Guarantor, and (ii) any moneys, credits or other property belonging to any Guarantor, at any time held by or coming into the possession of such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent) or any of their respective affiliates.
Setoff
 
SECTION 20. . Each Guarantor hereby assumes responsibility for keeping itself informed of the financial condition of the Borrower and any and all endorsers and/or other Guarantors of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, that diligent inquiry would reveal, and each Guarantor hereby agrees that none of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent) shall have any duty to advise such Guarantor of information known to any of them regarding such condition or any such circumstances. In the event any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), in its sole discretion, undertakes at any time or from time to time to provide any such information to a Guarantor, such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent) shall be under no obligation (i) to undertake any investigation not a part of its regular business routine, (ii) to disclose any information which such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), pursuant to accepted or reasonable commercial finance or banking practices, wishes to maintain confidential or (iii) to make any other or future disclosures of such information or any other information to such Guarantor.
Financial Information
SECTION 21. . Wherever possible, each provision of this Guaranty shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Guaranty shall be prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Guaranty.
Severability
SECTION 22. . This Guaranty represents the final agreement of each of the Guarantors with respect to the matters contained herein and may not be contradicted by evidence of prior or contemporaneous agreements, or subsequent oral agreements, between the Guarantor and any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent).
Merger
SECTION 23. . Section headings in this Guaranty are for convenience of reference only and shall not govern the interpretation of any provision of this Guaranty.
Headings
SECTION 24. . If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due from any Guarantor hereunder in the currency expressed to be payable herein (the "") into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the specified currency with such other currency at the Administrative Agent's main New York City office on the Business Day preceding that on which final, non-appealable judgment is given. The obligations of each Guarantor in respect of any sum due hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency other than the specified currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, may in accordance with normal, reasonable banking procedures purchase the specified currency with such other currency. If the amount of the specified currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, in the specified currency, each Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, against such loss, and if the amount of the specified currency so purchased exceeds (a) the sum originally due to any Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, in the specified currency and (b) amounts shared with other Holders of Guaranteed Obligations as a result of allocations of such excess as a disproportionate payment to such other Holder of Guaranteed Obligations under Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement, such Holder of Guaranteed Obligations (including the Administrative Agent), as the case may be, agrees, by accepting the benefits hereof, to remit such excess to such Guarantor.
Judgment Currency
specified currency
 
SECTION 25. . The obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty shall automatically terminate in accordance with Section 9.15 of the Credit Agreement.
Termination of Guaranty
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Initial Guarantors has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed by its authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Acknowledged and Agreed
as of the date first written above:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Guaranty (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") made as of [            ] by and among [INITIAL GUARANTORS TO COME] (the "" and along with any additional Subsidiaries of the Borrower, which become parties thereto and together with the undersigned, the "") in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Holders of Guaranteed Obligations, under the Credit Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Guaranty. By its execution below, the undersigned [NAME OF NEW GUARANTOR], a [corporation] [partnership] [limited liability company], agrees to become, and does hereby become, a Guarantor under the Guaranty and agrees to be bound by such Guaranty as if originally a party thereto. By its execution below, the undersigned represents and warrants as to itself that all of the representations and warranties contained in Section 2 of the Guaranty are true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof.
Guaranty
Initial Guarantors
Guarantors
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, [NAME OF NEW GUARANTOR], a [corporation] [partnership] [limited liability company] has executed and delivered this Annex I counterpart to the Guaranty as of this             day of             , 20            .
 
 
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "") among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Compliance Certificate have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.
Agreement
Borrower
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT:
 
 
 
 
Described below are the exceptions, if any, to paragraph 3 by listing, in detail, (i) the nature of the condition or event, the period during which it has existed and the action which the Borrower has taken, is taking, or proposes to take with respect to each such condition or event or (ii) the change in GAAP or the application thereof and the effect of such change on the attached financial statements:
 
The foregoing certifications, together with the computations set forth in hereto and the financial statements delivered with this Compliance Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this             day of             ,             .
Schedule I
 
 
 
INCREASING LENDER SUPPLEMENT, dated             , 20            (this ""), by and among each of the signatories hereto, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Supplement
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower has the right, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to effectuate from time to time an increase in the Aggregate Commitment and/or one or more tranches of Incremental Term Loans under the Credit Agreement by requesting one or more Lenders to increase the amount of its Commitment and/or to participate in such a tranche;
Section 2.20
WHEREAS, the Borrower has given notice to the Administrative Agent of its intention to [increase the Aggregate Commitment] [and] [enter into a tranche of Incremental Term Loans] pursuant to such ; and
Section 2.20
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned Increasing Lender now desires to [increase the amount of its Commitment] [and] [participate in a tranche of Incremental Term Loans] under the Credit Agreement by executing and delivering to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent this Supplement;
Section 2.20
NOW, THEREFORE, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
1. The undersigned Increasing Lender agrees, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, that on the date of this Supplement it shall [have its Commitment increased by $[            ], thereby making the aggregate amount of its total Commitments equal to $[            ]] [and] [participate in a tranche of Incremental Term Loans with a commitment amount equal to $[            ] with respect thereto].
2. The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on and as of the date hereof.
3. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have their defined meanings when used herein.
4. This Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
5. This Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same document.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Supplement to be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer on the date first above written.
[INSERT NAME OF INCREASING LENDER]
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the date first written above:
NETAPP, INC.
 
Acknowledged as of the date first written above:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
as Administrative Agent
 
 
AUGMENTING LENDER SUPPLEMENT, dated             , 20            (this ""), to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Supplement
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, the Credit Agreement provides in Section 2.20 thereof that any bank, financial institution or other entity may [extend Commitments] [and] [participate in tranches of Incremental Term Loans] under the Credit Agreement subject to the approval of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, by executing and delivering to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a supplement to the Credit Agreement in substantially the form of this Supplement; and
WHEREAS, the undersigned Augmenting Lender was not an original party to the Credit Agreement but now desires to become a party thereto;
NOW, THEREFORE, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
1. The undersigned Augmenting Lender agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and agrees that it shall, on the date of this Supplement, become a Lender for all purposes of the Credit Agreement to the same extent as if originally a party thereto, with a [Commitment with respect to Revolving Loans of $[            ]] [and] [a commitment with respect to Incremental Term Loans of $[            ]].
2. The undersigned Augmenting Lender (a) represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into this Supplement; (b) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and has reviewed such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Supplement; (c) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (d) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are incidental thereto; and (e) agrees that it will be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and will perform in accordance with its terms all the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 5.01
3. The undersigned's address for notices for the purposes of the Credit Agreement is as follows:
[                    ]
4. The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on and as of the date hereof.
5. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have their defined meanings when used herein.
6. This Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
7. This Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same document.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Supplement to be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer on the date first above written.
[INSERT NAME OF AUGMENTING LENDER]
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the date first written above:
NETAPP, INC.
 
Acknowledged as of the date first written above:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
as Administrative Agent
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Loan(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Loan(s)) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
[NAME OF LENDER]
 
Date:             , 20[__]
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender in writing, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
[NAME OF PARTICIPANT]
 
Date:             , 20[__]
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such participation, (iii) with respect such participation, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners'/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
[NAME OF PARTICIPANT]
Date:             , 20[__]
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the Loan(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Loan(s)) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such Loan(s) (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Loan(s)), (iii) with respect to the extension of credit pursuant to the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners'/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
[NAME OF LENDER]
 
Date:             , 20[__]
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders referred to below
[10 South Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attention: [            ]
Facsimile: [            ]]
6
With a copy to:
560 Mission Street, 19
th
Floor
San Francisco, California 94105
Attention: Gerardo B. Loera
Facsimile: (310) 975-1334
Re:
NetApp, Inc.
[Date]
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower hereby gives you notice pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement that it requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection the Borrower specifies the following information with respect to such Borrowing requested hereby:
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that the conditions to lending specified in Section[s] [4.01 and]
1
4.02 of the Credit Agreement are satisfied as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders referred to below
[10 South Dearborn
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attention: [            ]
Facsimile: ([__]) [__]-[            ]]
1
Re:
NetApp, Inc.
[Date]
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012 (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among NetApp, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower hereby gives you notice pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Credit Agreement that it requests to convert an existing Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection the Borrower specifies the following information with respect to such conversion requested hereby:
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


