FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20040105172033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
        On December 30, 2003, two subsidiaries of Apartment Investment and Management Company formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of GE Real Estate (the "Investor"). Apartment Investment and Management Company and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as "Aimco." The new entity is a Delaware limited liability company in which one Aimco subsidiary is the managing member, and another Aimco subsidiary is the non-managing member. In the aggregate, the two Aimco subsidiaries received a 25% interest in the joint venture, and the Investor received a 75% non-managing member interest. Under the terms of the joint venture, Aimco transfers apartment properties to the joint venture, and the Investor contributes cash.
        At the initial closing for the joint venture on December 30, 2003, Aimco transferred interests in 33 apartment properties with a total of 9,534 units. The 33 properties, which are 100% owned by the joint venture, have a gross value estimated at approximately $346 million and have $204 million in mortgage debt that was assumed by the joint venture. At the initial closing, Aimco received approximately $107 million in cash proceeds (before transaction costs and funding of reserves), which it intends to use to redeem preferred stock, fund acquisitions of limited partnership interests, and for general corporate purposes. A copy of Aimco's press release announcing the formation of the joint venture and the initial closing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
        Under the terms of the joint venture's limited liability company agreement, Aimco retains sole control over the day-to-day operations of the joint venture through its ownership of the managing member. As a result, Aimco consolidates in its financial statements the results of operations of the joint venture. Another Aimco subsidiary serves as property manager for each property owned by the joint venture. The Investor has approval rights with respect to a limited number of "Major Decisions," which include, among other things: amendments to the organization documents of the joint venture or any of its subsidiaries; approval of an annual business plan; the sale or transfer of a property; property financings and refinancings; and bankruptcy filings. Under certain circumstances, the Investor has the right to remove as the managing member the Aimco subsidiary that serves as the managing member. Those circumstances include, among other things, the following: a breach or default under the organizational documents of the joint venture; for "Cause," as defined in the limited liability company agreement; if Aimco effects a prohibited transfer of its interest in the joint venture; a default by the Aimco members in their obligation to lend funds to the joint venture to cover operating shortfalls; and certain bankruptcy events relating to the Aimco members. If the Investor removes the Aimco subsidiary that serves as the managing member, the Investor may appoint a new managing member (subject to Aimco's approval), and cause the joint venture to terminate any property management contracts with Aimco affiliates.
        Under the limited liability company agreement, the managing member must cause properties that represent at least 20% but not more than 30% in the aggregate of the total portfolio value to be sold between December 30, 2007 and December 30, 2008, and at least 30% but not more than 35% in the aggregate to be sold between December 30, 2008 and December 30, 2009. At the option of Aimco or the Investor, all of the properties may be sold after December 30, 2010. The Investor has the right of first offer with respect to properties to be sold by the joint venture, unless the Investor exercises its right to cause properties to be sold after December 30, 2010, in which case Aimco has the right of first offer with respect to such properties.
        In certain circumstances, Aimco or the Investor has the ability to trigger a buy-sell procedure in which one party names a price for a particular property or group of properties, and the other party decides if it wants to buy, or require the first party to buy, the property or group of properties. This buy-sell procedure is triggered upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among other things, the following: the Investor's failure to approve a "Major Decision"; the removal of the Aimco
subsidiary as managing member; a transfer by a member of its interest in the joint venture that is not permitted under the agreement; or a change in control of Aimco.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
(c)
Exhibits
        The following exhibits are filed with this report:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
        Dated: January 5, 2004
QuickLinks
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
SIGNATURE

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
        DENVER, COLORADO, January 5, 2004
        Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE:AIV) announced today that it formed a joint venture (the "JV") with GE Real Estate. At closing on December 30, 2003, Aimco transferred to the JV interests in 33 of its apartment properties with a total of 9,534 units and GE Real Estate contributed cash.
        The 33 properties have a gross value estimated at approximately $346 million and currently have $204 million in mortgage debt that was assumed by the JV. GE Real Estate received a 75% non-managing member interest in the JV, and Aimco received a 25% managing member interest in the JV. Aimco will continue to manage the properties and will receive a promoted interest if leveraged returns to GE Real Estate exceed 11%. As a result of its control over day-to-day operations, Aimco will continue to consolidate in its financial statements the properties contributed to the JV. Aimco will not recognize any GAAP gain or loss as a result of this transaction.
        Aimco received approximately $107 million in cash proceeds at closing, before transaction costs and funding of reserves. Aimco intends to use the net proceeds to redeem preferred stock, to fund acquisitions of limited partnership interests, and for general corporate purposes. The annualized effect of the transaction on Aimco's Adjusted Funds from Operations ("AFFO") and Funds from Operations ("FFO") is expected to be $0.00 per share and a reduction of $0.02 per share, respectively, assuming 75% of the proceeds is used to redeem preferred stock and 25% is used to fund acquisitions of limited partnership interests. Based on the expected timing of the preferred stock redemption, Aimco anticipates that there will be an incremental reduction in AFFO and FFO of $0.01 per share in the first quarter 2004.
        "We are pleased to expand our relationship with GE Real Estate through the formation of this joint venture," said Paul McAuliffe, Aimco's chief financial officer. "This transaction allows Aimco to raise equity capital at a competitive cost compared to property sales and to reduce mortgage and preferred leverage."
        The JV is expected to acquire additional apartment properties in 2004, including five properties that have been underwritten and are expected to close in the first and second quarter of 2004, bringing the total to 38 properties. GE Real Estate plans to invest up to $300 million of equity in the JV for investment in apartment properties, including the investment made to date, subject to its underwriting approval.
        "This JV brings together two organizations with significant complementary resources," said Rick Hurd, managing director, Institutional Equity Group at GE Real Estate. "GE Real Estate will provide a reliable source of capital while Aimco offers valuable experience in real estate operations to help maximize the value of these properties. We are pleased to partner with Aimco, and we look forward to adding properties to the joint venture over the coming months," he said.
        The 38 properties, which include 10,794 apartments units, are part of Aimco's core portfolio and are located as follows:
        Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado owning and operating a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 19 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates approximately 1,685 properties, including approximately 300,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
        GE Real Estate (www.gerealestate.com), a business unit of GE Commercial Finance, is one of the world's leading resources for commercial real estate capital. Headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, GE Real Estate has assets of nearly $28 billion and more than 30 offices throughout North America, Europe and Asia. GE Commercial Finance, with approximately $200 billion in assets, provides a broad range of financing products and services to businesses of all sizes throughout the world. GE is a AAA-rated, diversified services, technology and manufacturing company, with operations worldwide.
QuickLinks
APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY ANNOUNCES JOINT VENTURE WITH GE REAL ESTATE


