FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20050505093145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b)under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated May 5, 2005, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its first quarter 2005 earnings conference call on May 5, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/financial/1Q2005.asp by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-257-1836 (303-275-2170 for international callers). If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 800-405-2236 (303-590-3000 for international callers) and using access code 11028501#. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/financial/1Q2005.asp. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Denver, Colorado May 5, 2005
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces First Quarter 2005 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced first quarter 2005 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Contact Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Jennifer Martin, Vice President-Investor Relations 303.691.4440
Investor@Aimco.com
 
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco operations are on track with our expectations for 2005. We have plenty of work ahead but believe we have a good plan and considerable momentum."
Chief Financial Officer Paul McAuliffe adds: "Same Store revenue improved 4.3% and Same Store NOI improved 3.1%, on a year-over-year basis. This marks the first positive year-over-year Same Store NOI change since the second quarter of 2003, and it marks the third consecutive quarter of sequential NOI improvement. Operating results supported FFO per share of $0.67 (before impairments and preferred redemption charges), consistent with our first quarter outlook. FFO results in the quarter were negatively affected by $0.02 per share from additional costs associated with the 2004 hurricanes and the early acquisition of Palazzo East in Los Angeles. With Aimco's operations turnaround on course, our FFO outlook for 2005 has been tightened within our previously stated range to $2.82 to $3.00 per share."
Business Components  Conventional Operations and Aimco Capital
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations include Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the first quarter 2005, this portfolio had 595 properties with 165,618 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 81%. During the first quarter 2005, conventional real estate operations generated free cash flow (FCF; a non-GAAP financial measure defined in the Glossary and presented and reconciled to GAAP on Supplemental Schedule 2) of $145.9 million.
"Same Store" Results
The "Same Store" portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties. In the first quarter 2005, the "Same Store" portfolio included 531 communities with approximately 120,700 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 82% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing "Same Store" results in the first quarter 2005 with the first quarter 2004, total revenue increased $11.0 million, or 4.3%. The increase in revenue was generated by: higher occupancy, up 1.6% from 88.6% to 90.2%; higher average rent, up $12 per unit, or 1.6%, from $728 per unit to $740 per unit; and lower bad debt, down $1.1 million. "Same Store" expenses of $117.7 million increased by $6.5 million, or 5.9%, compared with the first quarter 2004. Increased expenses included: $2.8 million due to increased staffing in support of initiatives to improve customer service and asset appearance; $1.7 million for repairs and maintenance; $1.5 million higher utilities expense due to increased natural gas rates; and $0.5 million primarily due to higher marketing and turnover expenses. "Same Store" portfolio net operating income was $146.4 million for the first quarter 2005, up 3.1% from the first quarter 2004.
 
 
Same Store Operating Results
Comparing "Same Store" results on a sequential basis, total revenue declined $0.8 million in the first quarter 2005 compared with the fourth quarter 2004, caused by the 70 basis point decline in occupancy, partially offset by lower bad debt. Expenses declined $0.9 million, primarily due to lower turnover expense. Net operating income increased $0.1 million, or 0.1%, on a sequential basis.
AIMCO CAPITAL  Aimco Capital oversees affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector. Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. During the first quarter 2005, affordable property operations included 398 properties with 48,029 units. Aimco has a weighted average 41% ownership in its affordable properties. Occupancy and rents in the affordable sector increased sequentially, ending the quarter at 95.9% and $655, respectively, from 95.1% and $651, respectively, at the end of 2004. In the first quarter, Aimco Capital generated net operating income of $16.9 million from property operations.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  Aimco completed five acquisitions during the first quarter 2005 for a total purchase price of $227 million. The 100% owned properties include The Palazzo East, a 610-unit luxury, garden-style complex located in the center of the Mid-Wilshire District in Los Angeles that was purchased for $199 million. The Palazzo East is the last of three newly developed properties that Aimco agreed to acquire under the terms of the March 2002 acquisition of Casden Properties, Inc. The property was acquired in March 2005 at attainment of 60% occupancy. Aimco also acquired four properties in Manhattan comprised of seven buildings with 129 apartments and six retail spaces for $28 million. During the first quarter 2005, Aimco also purchased for an aggregate of $24.1 million additional limited partnership interests in 42 partnerships that own 111 properties. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria. Aimco considers these properties as "non-core" (defined in the Glossary) and seeks to hold them over the intermediate term.
 
 
In the first quarter 2005, Aimco sold one non-core conventional property and 13 affordable properties with 152 and 1,155 units, respectively, for $52 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $23 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $12 million. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Gain on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in total gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains related to sales of unconsolidated entities and other and net gains within discontinued operations), net of related taxes, of $8.9 million for the first quarter 2005, compared with a gain of $10.6 million for the first quarter 2004.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  At quarter-end, Aimco's Redevelopment and Construction Services groups had 33 projects at various stages of redevelopment, including 23 conventional projects and 10 affordable projects. During the first quarter 2005, redevelopment expenditures totaled $37.8 million (Aimco share $21.3 million) and Aimco initiated six new moderate projects and completed three moderate projects. Aimco's Flamingo South Beach redevelopment project is on schedule to reach stabilization during the second quarter 2005 with occupied and pre-leased units at 86.6% as of the end of March. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  During the first quarter, Aimco continued to work on improving the permitted density and zoning use for several properties including: Springhill Lake in Greenbelt, Maryland; Orchidtree in Scottsdale, Arizona; and Treetops in San Bruno, California.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated from management of properties in which Aimco has unconsolidated interests. Property management net operating income was $4.1 million in the first quarter 2005 compared with $5.9 million in the first quarter 2004. Property management net operating income declined due to increased Aimco ownership and sales of unconsolidated properties that generated management income.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactional activities including dispositions, refinancings, tax credit syndications and redevelopment, and are earned primarily by Aimco Capital. Asset management income is earned by Aimco Capital from the financial management of properties, rather than property management of day-to-day operations. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $5.4 million in the first quarter 2005 compared with $6.0 million in the first quarter 2004. The amount of this net operating income may vary each quarter depending upon the nature and timing of transactional activity.
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income (which includes transactional accretion income of $1.4 million) was $7.5 million for the first quarter 2005, an increase of $0.1 million compared with the first quarter 2004. Interest income was generated primarily from notes receivable totaling $200.3 million at March 31, 2005.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the first quarter 2005, Aimco closed 22 mortgage loans, including 17 refinancings of existing mortgage debt and five new mortgage loans on newly acquired properties. Total proceeds were $259 million at a weighted average interest rate of 3.82%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs, distributions to limited partners and acquisition costs totaling $174 million, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $85 million.
At the end of the first quarter 2005, Aimco's corporate debt balance was $576.0 million at an average rate of 4.71%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility totaled $276.0 million, leaving $153.0 million (after $21.1 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. Please refer to Schedule 5 of the Supplemental Information for more detail on debt activity.
 
 
As of March 31, 2005, Aimco had $6,359 million total debt outstanding of which $1,784 million was floating rate. The floating rate debt included $576 million corporate debt, $505 million floating rate secured notes and $703 million of tax-exempt bonds.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $94.2 million for the first quarter 2005, an increase of $6.1 million from $88.1 million in the first quarter 2004. The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of: (i) $6.1 million due to increased property debt associated with acquisitions and increased ownership; (ii) $1.3 million due to increased corporate borrowings and increased interest rates on corporate and other variable rate debt; (iii)$1.4 million due to increased loan fees and a non-recurring benefit in the first quarter 2004; all partially offset by (iv) $3.0 million in lower expense due to redemption of mandatorily redeemable securities and higher capitalized interest due to redevelopment.
PREFERRED STOCK ACTIVITY  As previously announced, Aimco completed the redemption on January 11, 2005 of the remaining Trust Based Convertible Preferred Securities, or TOPRS, and on January 21, 2005 of the remaining shares of its 8.75% Class D Cumulative Preferred Stock.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the first quarter 2005 of $20.9 million were up $2.6 million compared with $18.3 million in the first quarter 2004. The year-over-year increase is primarily due to increased compensation related to increased staffing levels and higher health care costs, partially offset by lower legal and consulting fees.
Outlook
For the second quarter 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $0.65 to $0.72 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $0.42 to $0.49 per share.
For the full year 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $2.82 to $3.00 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $2.05 to $2.20 per share. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule for more detail on the first quarter and full year 2005, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on April 28, 2005, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, payable on May 31, 2005 to stockholders of record on May 20, 2005. The dividend represents 118% of AFFO (diluted) and 95% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and a 6.3% annualized yield based on the $37.89 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on April 27, 2005.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the First Quarter 2005 earnings conference call to be held Thursday, May 5, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at , then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-257-1836, or 303-275-2170 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin and indicate that you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company First Quarter 2005 earnings conference call. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 800-405-2236 (303-590-3000 for international callers) and using access code 11028501#.
www.aimco.com/about/financial/1Q2005.asp
 
 
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link www.aimco.com/about/financial/1Q2005.asp or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of second quarter and full year results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to improve upon current occupancy, rent levels and "Same Store" results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 22 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates approximately 1,475 properties, including approximately 260,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
 
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
     
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Second Quarter and Full Year 2005 (unaudited)
The Outlook information provided on this Schedule contains information that is forward-looking, including statements concerning projected second quarter and full year 2005 results. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and projections about the markets and the industry in which Aimco operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are also based on certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to Aimco's ability to improve upon current occupancy, rent levels and "same store" results and the economic environment in which Aimco operates. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and will be affected by a variety of risks and factors including, without limitation: national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that Aimco's cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) Aimco's earnings per share guidance does not include estimates for (i) gain on dispositions or impairment losses due to the unpredictable timing of transactions or (ii) deferred costs recognized on early repayment of debt or redemption related preferred stock issuance charges.
(2) FFO per share before adjustments represents FFO before impairments and redemption related preferred stock issuance charges.
(3) The expected occupancy above is based on a daily weighted average calculation.
(4) Aimco anticipates gross sales proceeds of $500 to $550 million for 2005 ($325 to $350 million related to conventional properties and $175 to $200 million related to affordable properties). Aimco share of proceeds is expected to be $325 to $375 million ($275 to $315 million related to conventional properties and $50 to $60 million related to affordable properties). Aimco estimates that its share of cash from these dispositions, net of mortgage debt and third-party equity interests, will be $120 to $150 million ($100 to $125 million related to conventional properties and $20 to $25 million related to affordable properties).
(5) Gross acquisitions include property acquisitions, limited partnership acquisitions, preferred stock redemptions and common stock repurchases.
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data)(unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
[a] Represents Aimco's numerator for earnings per common share calculated in accordance with GAAP.
[b] Includes amortization of management contracts where Aimco is the general partner. Such management contracts were established in certain instances where Aimco acquired a general partner interest in either a consolidated or an unconsolidated partnership. Because the recoverability of these management contracts depends primarily on the operations of the real estate owned by the limited partnerships, Aimco believes it is consistent with NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper to add back such amortization, as the White Paper directs the add back of amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real estate industry.
[c] "Minority partners' interest," means minority interest in our consolidated real estate partnerships.
[d] In accordance with GAAP, deficit distributions to minority partners are charges recognized in Aimco's income statement when cash is distributed to a non-controlling partner in a consolidated real estate partnership in excess of the positive balance in such partner's capital account, which is classified as minority interest on the balance sheet. Aimco records these charges for GAAP purposes even though there is no economic effect or cost. Deficit distributions to minority partners occur when the fair value of the underlying real estate exceeds its depreciated net book value because the underlying real estate has appreciated or maintained its value. As a result, the recognition of expense for deficit distributions to minority partners represents, in substance, either (1) recognition of depreciation previously allocated to the non-controlling partner or (2) a payment related to the non-controlling partner's share of real estate appreciation. Based on White Paper guidance that requires real estate depreciation and gains to be excluded from FFO, Aimco adds back deficit distributions and subtracts related recoveries in its reconciliation of net income to FFO.
[e] Represents Aimco's denominator for earnings per common share-diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP plus additional common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO/AFFO.
[f] On October 1, 2003, NAREIT clarified its definition of FFO to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate FFO. Although Aimco's presentation conforms with the NAREIT definition, Aimco considers such approach to be inconsistent with the treatment of gains on dispositions of real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco no longer adds back impairment losses when computing FFO in accordance with this clarification. As a result, FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 includes impairment losses of $2.2 million and FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 includes a net recovery of impairment losses of $0.1 million.
[g] In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's July 31, 2003 interpretation of the Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, Aimco includes redemption related preferred stock issuance costs in FFO. As a result, FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 includes issuance costs of $1.1 million.
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation
As of March 31, 2005
(unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data As of March 31, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of March 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I.   Debt Balances and Data
  
II.
Debt Maturities
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (Continued)
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of March 31, 2005 (in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings
IV. Capitalization
V. Ratings on Preferred Securities
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Sales First Quarter 2005 versus First Quarter 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Sales First Quarter 2005 versus Fourth Quarter 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data (unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET SELECTED MARKETS
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
FIRST QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY
FIRST QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 (in thousands, except per unit) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the three months ended March 31, 2005 (per unit is based on approximately 152,600 units which represent effective units (excluding non-managed units) weighted for the period):
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of March 31, 2005 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Consolidated properties owned less than one year as of the beginning of the most recent quarter.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. From the second quarter 2002 through the fourth quarter 2003, the calculation of AFFO also deducted Capital Enhancements (CE) expenditures. CE was Aimco's categorization of expenditures made to improve Aimco's assets by adding a new feature or revenue source; however, as part of changes effective as of the first quarter 2004, these expenditures are included within the capital improvements category. Capital improvement expenditures are not deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please see Supplemental Schedule I for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF is net operating income from real estate minus CR spending. FCF also includes cash flows generated from the investment management business, interest income, general and administrative expenses, provision for or recovery of losses on notes receivable and other expenses (income), net incurred by Aimco. FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe conventional properties in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 


