FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20050803124531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated August 3, 2005, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its second quarter 2005 earnings conference call on August 3, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/financial/2Q2005.asp by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-218-0204 (303-262-2138 for international callers). If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 800-405-2236 (303-590-3000 for international callers) and using access code 11033736#. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/financial/2Q2005.asp. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
     The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: August 3, 2005
 

 
Denver, Colorado August 3, 2005
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Second Quarter 2005 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced second quarter 2005 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Investor@Aimco.com Jennifer Martin, Vice President-Investor Relations 303.691.4440
Contact
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco operations continued to improve in the quarter. I am pleased with the progress of Jeff and his team in increasing the contribution from Aimco's portfolio of conventional properties. We have substantially increased spending for capital improvements and redevelopment and expect that will support further gains."
Mr. Considine continues: "Looking forward, we expect further gains from operations, increased contributions from redevelopment, and some easing of G&A cost pressures."
Chief Financial Officer Paul McAuliffe adds: "Second quarter FFO met expectations through solid results in core operations, including a 6.6% increase in Same Store net operating income, positive trends at acquisition and redevelopment properties, and fee income in line with forecast."
Mr. McAuliffe continues: "For the second half of 2005, while operations continue on plan, we have lowered guidance to reflect actions that we expect will create long-term value. These actions include: (i) maintaining 100% interest in Palazzo East rather than joint venturing 50% as planned; (ii) correspondingly, increasing gross dispositions by $240 million; and (iii) increasing our expected 2005 redevelopment expenditures by $40 million. In addition, as previously disclosed, guidance is affected by approximately $1.9 million in costs associated with the CFO and CAO transition as well as actual results year-to-date."
Business Components  Conventional Operations and Aimco Capital
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations include Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the second quarter 2005, this portfolio had 590 properties with 164,763 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 82%. During the second quarter 2005, conventional real estate operations generated free cash flow (FCF; a non-GAAP financial measure defined in the Glossary and presented and reconciled to GAAP on Supplemental Schedule 2) of $145.6 million.
"Same Store" Results
The "Same Store" portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties. In the second quarter 2005, the "Same Store" portfolio included 525 communities with approximately 120,330 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 82.2% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing "Same Store" results in the second quarter 2005 with the second quarter 2004, total revenue increased $16.7 million, or 6.6%. The increase in revenue was generated by: higher occupancy, up 390 basis points from 87.0% to 90.9%; higher average rent, up $12 per unit, or 1.6%, from $733 per unit to $745 per unit; and lower bad debt, down $0.25 million. "Same Store" expenses of $119.9 million increased by $7.5 million, or 6.6%, compared with the second quarter 2004. Increased expenses included: $6.2 million in controllable expenses such as increased staffing, contract services, marketing and turnover costs primarily in support of initiatives to increase occupancy; and a $1.3 million increase in property tax and insurance expenses. "Same Store" portfolio net operating income was $149.0 million for the second quarter 2005, up 6.6% from the second quarter 2004.
 
Same Store Operating Results
 
Comparing "Same Store" results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $5.2 million in the second quarter 2005 compared with the first quarter 2005, driven primarily by a 70 basis point increase in occupancy and a 0.7% increase in rental rate. Expenses increased $2.4 million, primarily due to increased turnover, leasing and marketing costs associated with increasing occupancy as well as higher insurance expense, partially offset by seasonally lower utilities expenses. Net operating income increased $2.8 million, or 1.9%, on a sequential basis.
AIMCO CAPITAL  Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. Aimco Capital has been organized to oversee Aimco's affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector.
Affordable Property Operations
At the end of the second quarter 2005, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 386 properties with 46,167 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 40%. During the second quarter 2005, the affordable property operations generated real estate free cash flow of $16.9 million and property management net operating income of $3.3 million. On a year-over-year basis, second quarter average month-end occupancy increased 70 basis points from 95.2% to 95.9%, and average rent per unit increased 3.1% from $646 to $666 per unit.
Affordable Asset Management and Transactional Activity
Aimco Capital generates activity fees from transactional activities including tax credit redevelopments, syndications, dispositions and refinancings, and asset management income from the financial management of affordable real estate partnerships. Aimco Capital activity fee and asset management net operating income was $4.2 million in the second quarter 2005 compared with $4.9 million in the second quarter 2004, and $9.4 million year-to-date 2005 compared with $11.0 million year-to-date 2004.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  Aimco completed two acquisitions during the second quarter 2005:
 
The Palazzo East, acquired in March 2005 at 60% occupancy, operated at a deficit after related interest expense reducing second quarter results by approximately $0.015 per share. After the bankruptcy of a large corporate housing provider during the second quarter, the effective occupancy was 64% at quarter-end. Year-to-date Aimco has purchased six properties including 1,012 units for a total purchase price of $281 million, plus Chestnut Hall for which the purchase price is not disclosed. During the second quarter 2005, Aimco also purchased for an aggregate of $22.8 million additional limited partnership interests in 45 partnerships that own 111 properties. This activity included increasing Aimco's ownership interest in the Flamingo South Beach property from 77% to 99%. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria. Aimco considers these properties as "non-core" (defined in the Glossary) and seeks to hold them over the intermediate term.
In the second quarter 2005, Aimco sold seven non-core conventional properties and eight affordable properties with 1,540 and 1,192 units, respectively, for $136 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $103 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $59 million. Year-to-date Aimco has sold eight conventional properties and 21 affordable properties for gross proceeds of $189 million (Aimco share $127 million). See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Gain on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in total gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains related to sales of unconsolidated entities and other and net gains within discontinued operations), net of related taxes, of $31.7 million for the second quarter 2005, compared with a gain of $12.2 million for the second quarter 2004.
As previously announced, Aimco is marketing for sale the Flamingo South Beach property, which has 1,688 units and is located on 16 acres of waterfront in the South Beach area of Miami Beach. Aimco has received a number of bids for this property, which are currently under review.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  At quarter-end, Aimco's Redevelopment and Construction Services groups had 44 projects at various stages of redevelopment, including 29 conventional projects and 15 affordable projects. During the second quarter 2005, redevelopment expenditures totaled $45.5 million (Aimco share $30.9 million) and Aimco initiated six new moderate conventional projects. The Flamingo South Beach project is scheduled to reach stabilization during the third quarter 2005 with occupied and pre-leased units at 89.4% as of the end of June. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  During the second quarter, Aimco continued its progress on improving the permitted density and zoning use for several properties including: Springhill Lake in Greenbelt, Maryland; Orchidtree in Scottsdale, Arizona; and Treetops in San Bruno, California.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated from management of properties in which Aimco has unconsolidated interests. Property management net operating income was $4.1 million in the second quarter 2005 compared with $6.9 million in the second quarter 2004. Property management net operating income declined due to sales of unconsolidated properties and increased ownership.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactional activities including tax credit syndications, redevelopment, dispositions and refinancings, and are earned primarily by
 
Aimco Capital. Asset management income is earned by Aimco Capital from the financial management of partnerships, rather than property management of day-to-day operations. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $4.4 million in the second quarter 2005 compared with $5.4 million in the second quarter 2004. Year-to-date activity fee and asset management income was $9.8 million compared with $11.4 million in the first half of 2004. The amount of this net operating income may vary each quarter depending upon the nature and timing of transactional activity.
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income (which includes transactional accretion income of $0.4 million) was $7.4 million for the second quarter 2005, a decrease of $0.1 million compared with the second quarter 2004. Interest income was generated primarily from notes receivable totaling $196.0 million at June 30, 2005 and from interest- bearing accounts.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the second quarter 2005, Aimco closed 14 mortgage loans, refinancing existing mortgage debt. Total proceeds were $124.1 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.12%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners totaling $79.8 million, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $44.3 million.
At the end of the second quarter 2005, Aimco's corporate debt balance was $674.6 million at an average rate of 5.23%, including an additional $100 million term loan borrowed on June 16, 2005 under Aimco's existing credit agreement. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility totaled $274.6 million, leaving $151.8 million (after $23.6 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. Please refer to Schedule 5 of the Supplemental Information for more detail on debt activity.
As of June 30, 2005, Aimco had $6.50 billion total debt outstanding of which $1.97 billion was floating rate. The floating rate debt included $675 million corporate debt, $571 million floating rate secured notes and $729 million of tax-exempt bonds.
Subsequent to quarter-end, on August 1, 2005, Moody's rating service upgraded the outlook for Aimco's senior unsecured and preferred stock ratings to "stable".
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $96.5 million for the second quarter 2005, an increase of $5.5 million from $91.0 million in the second quarter 2004. The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of: (i) $6.5 million due to increased debt balances primarily associated with acquisitions, refinancings and increased ownership; (ii) $2.6 million due to increased interest rates on corporate and other variable rate debt and other items; partially offset by (iii) $3.6 million higher capitalized interest due to increased redevelopment activity.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the second quarter 2005 of $21.7 million were up $4.3 million compared with $17.4 million in the second quarter 2004. The year-over-year increase is primarily due to increased compensation related to increased staffing levels, recruiting fees and higher health care costs, partially offset by lower legal fees.
Outlook
For the third quarter 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $0.67 to $0.71 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $0.46 to $0.50 per share.
For the full year 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $2.72 to $2.83 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $1.92 to $2.03 per share. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule for more detail on the third quarter and full year 2005, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release.
 
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on July 29, 2005, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, payable on August 31, 2005 to stockholders of record on August 19, 2005. The dividend represents 143% of AFFO (diluted) and 90% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 5.5% annualized yield based on the $43.29 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on July 27, 2005.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Second Quarter 2005 earnings conference call to be held Wednesday, August 3, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at , then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-218-0204, or 303-262-2138 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin and indicate that you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Second Quarter 2005 earnings conference call. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 800-405-2236 (303-590-3000 for international callers) and using access code 11033736#.
www.aimco.com/about/financial/2Q2005.asp
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
www.aimco.com/about/financial/2Q2005.asp
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to improve upon current occupancy, rent levels and "Same Store" results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 25 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates approximately 1,475 properties, including approximately 260,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
 
GAAP Income Statements Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
 
GAAP Balance Sheets Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Third Quarter and Full Year 2005 (unaudited)
The Outlook information provided on this Schedule contains information that is forward-looking, including statements concerning projected third quarter and full year 2005 results. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and projections about the markets and the industry in which Aimco operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are also based on certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to Aimco's ability to improve upon current occupancy, rent levels and "same store" results and the economic environment in which Aimco operates. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and will be affected by a variety of risks and factors including, without limitation: national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that Aimco's cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued) Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 3 Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 Share Data As of June 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2005 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I. Debt Balances and Data
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (Continued) Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2005 (in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings
IV. Capitalization
V. Ratings on Senior Unsecured Shelf
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
 
Same Store Sales Second Quarter 2005 versus Second Quarter 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
 
Same Store Sales Second Quarter 2005 versus First Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
 
Same Store Sales Six Months Ended 2005 versus Six Months Ended 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data (unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
 
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET SELECTED MARKETS
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
SECOND QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY
YEAR-TO-DATE 2005 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY
 
SECOND QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
YEAR-TO-DATE 2005 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2005 (in thousands, except per unit) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the six months ended June 30, 2005 (per unit is based on approximately 153,300 units which represent effective units (excluding non-managed units) weighted for the period):
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of 2005 Redevelopment Activity As of June 30, 2005 (in millions, except unit data) (values are not adjusted for Aimco's ownership unless indicated) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of June 30, 2005 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Consolidated properties owned less than one year as of the beginning of the most recent quarter.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule I for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF is net operating income from real estate minus CR spending. FCF also includes cash flows generated from the investment management business, interest income, general and administrative expenses, provision for or recovery of losses on notes receivable and other expenses (income), net incurred by Aimco. FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe conventional properties in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


