FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20051101121046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated November 1, 2005, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its third quarter 2005 earnings conference call on November 1, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/3q2005 by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 877-845-9665 (706-634-2273 for international callers). If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 800-642-1687 (706-645-9291 for international callers) and using access code 9849263#. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/about/3q2005. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: November 1, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Denver, Colorado  November 1, 2005
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Third Quarter 2005 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced third quarter 2005 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Contact
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Jennifer Martin, Vice President-Investor Relations 303.691.4440
Investor@Aimco.com
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco had a solid third quarter: increased occupancies position the portfolio for significant increases in fourth quarter and 2006 profitability; redevelopment is ramping up; and progress on entitlements offers the potential for substantial increases to Net Asset Value."
Business Components  Conventional Operations and Aimco Capital
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations include Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the third quarter 2005, this portfolio had 566 properties with 160,327 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 81%. During the third quarter 2005, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $161.2 million.
"Same Store" Results
The "Same Store" portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties. In the third quarter 2005, the "Same Store" portfolio included 481 communities with approximately 112,788 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 82% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing "Same Store" results in the third quarter 2005 with the third quarter 2004, total revenue increased $16.0 million, or 6.4%. The increase in revenue was generated by: higher occupancy, up 270 basis points from 90.7% to 93.4%; higher average rent, up $20 per unit, or 2.7%, from $744 per unit to $764 per unit; and lower bad debt, down $0.4 million. "Same Store" expenses of $120.4 million increased by $6.7 million, or 5.9%, compared with the third quarter 2004. Increased expenses were primarily due to: $2.7 million of increased personnel costs mostly related to leasing staff; $0.9 million increased utility costs; $0.7 million of increased unit turnover costs; and $4.4 million of higher property taxes; which were partially offset by lower repairs and maintenance and lower property insurance costs. "Same Store" portfolio net operating income was $145.8 million for the third quarter 2005, up 6.8% from the third quarter 2004. Third quarter 2004 expenses included $1.2 million related to hurricanes. Excluding the effect of hurricanes in the prior year results, "Same Store" expenses increased 7.0% and "Same Store" net operating income increased 5.9%.
Same Store Operating Results
 
Comparing "Same Store" results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $9.7 million in the third quarter 2005 compared with the second quarter 2005, driven primarily by a 240 basis point increase in occupancy and a 1.1% increase in rental rate. Expenses increased $7.0 million, primarily due to higher unit turnover costs related to increased occupancy, higher utilities and higher worker's compensation costs. Net operating income increased $2.7 million, or 1.9%, on a sequential basis.
Going forward into the heating season, the higher cost of electricity and natural gas is expected to increase utility expenses compared with the 2004/2005 heating season. Aimco's primary exposure to these rising costs comes from the cost to heat apartment property common areas and to heat individual apartments where the cost is not borne by the resident. At the end of the third quarter 2005, Aimco had approximately 18,000 conventional apartments, 11% of the conventional portfolio, where the heating cost is Aimco's responsibility and is not reimbursed by the resident. Aimco expects its fourth quarter 2005 total utilities expense, including expenses for affordable properties, to be higher than previously expected by approximately $0.015 to $0.02 per share. Based on expected consumption, Aimco has fixed rates for nearly 80% of its natural gas exposure through March 2006 and has fixed rates for nearly 50% of its natural gas exposure through March 2007.
CORE PROPERTIES  Core properties (defined in the glossary) offer the potential for long-term growth at higher rates of return. These properties are predominantly located in coastal and sun-belt states as well as the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. In the third quarter 2005, core properties accounted for 80% of conventional operations net operating income. Core properties within the "Same Store" portfolio had better operating characteristics than non-core properties (defined in the glossary). Core property average rent was $872 per month, average occupancy was 94.8% and the operating margin was 58.4% compared with non-core, which had average monthly rent of $587, average occupancy of 91.0% and an operating margin of 43.9%
UNIVERSITY COMMUNITIES  Aimco's University Communities portfolio includes 20 properties with 5,596 units. Aimco seeks to own properties in close proximity to major universities. The company is currently in negotiations to sell nine properties having 2,167 units. In September 2005, University operations had "Same Store" occupancy of 96.6% and average rent of $597, up from 95.4% and $568, respectively, in September 2004.
AIMCO CAPITAL  Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. Aimco Capital has been organized to oversee Aimco's affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector.
Affordable Property Operations
At the end of the third quarter 2005, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 371 properties with 44,351 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 41%. During the third quarter 2005, affordable property operations generated net operating income of $19.9 million and property management net operating income of $3.6 million. On a year-over-year basis, third quarter average month-end occupancy increased 80 basis points from 95.2% to 96.0%, and average rent per unit increased 2.3% from $654 to $669 per unit.
Affordable Asset Management and Transactional Activity
Aimco Capital generates activity fees from transactional activities (including tax credit redevelopments, syndications, dispositions and refinancings), and asset management income from the financial management of affordable real estate partnerships. Aimco Capital activity fee and asset management net operating income was $4.9 million in the third quarter 2005 compared with $3.6 million in the third quarter 2004, and $14.4 million year-to-date 2005 compared with $14.6 million year-to-date 2004.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  In the third quarter 2005 Aimco acquired the Mustang Village apartments located in San Luis Obispo, California. Mustang Village is a 514-unit community located adjacent to California Polytechnic State University. The $70.8 million acquisition was made through Aimco's joint venture with the California State Teachers' Retirement System.
 
The Palazzo East property located in the Mid-Wilshire area of Los Angeles continues to lease-up, reaching 73.5% occupancy at the end of October.
Year-to-date Aimco has purchased seven properties including 1,526 units for a total purchase price of $352 million, plus Chestnut Hall for which the purchase price was not disclosed. During the third quarter 2005, Aimco also purchased for an aggregate of $4.4 million additional limited partnership interests in 58 partnerships that own 122 properties. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria and are typically located in markets that Aimco seeks to exit. These properties are considered non-core and Aimco seeks to hold them over the intermediate term.
In the third quarter 2005, Aimco sold 24 non-core conventional properties and 12 affordable properties with 4,867 and 1,511 units, respectively, for $334 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $276 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $130 million. Year-to-date Aimco sold 32 conventional properties and 33 affordable properties for gross proceeds of $523 million (Aimco share $403 million) and exited five markets. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Gain on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in total gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains related to sales of unconsolidated entities and other and net gains within discontinued operations), net of related taxes, of $50.5 million for the third quarter 2005, compared with gains of $201.2 million for the third quarter 2004.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco continues to expand its redevelopment activity. At quarter-end, Aimco's Redevelopment and Construction Services groups had 50 projects at various stages of redevelopment, including 33 conventional projects and 17 affordable projects. During the third quarter 2005, redevelopment expenditures totaled $57.0 million (Aimco share $46.1 million) and Aimco initiated four new moderate conventional projects. The Flamingo South Beach project reached stabilization during the third quarter 2005 with occupied and pre-leased units at 93% at quarter-end. Belmont Place in Marietta, Georgia reached stabilization five quarters ahead of schedule with occupied and pre-leased units at 96% at quarter-end. At quarter-end, Aimco's pipeline of identified redevelopment opportunities included 120 properties for an estimated redevelopment cost of approximately $1 billion, which the company plans to complete over the next five years. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco has additional development opportunity tied to successful entitlement activity. During the third quarter, Aimco continued its progress on improving the permitted density and zoning use for several properties. For example, at Spring Hill Lake located in Greenbelt, Maryland, Aimco received City of Greenbelt and Prince Georges County Planning Board approvals for its conceptual site plan that entails increasing the density from 2,900 to 5,800 units.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated from management of properties in which Aimco has unconsolidated interests. Property management net operating income was $4.2 million in the third quarter 2005 compared with $6.0 million in the third quarter 2004. Property management net operating income declined due to sales of unconsolidated properties and increased ownership resulting in consolidation.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactional activities (including tax credit redevelopments, syndications, dispositions and refinancings) and are earned primarily by Aimco Capital. Asset management income is earned by Aimco Capital from the financial management of partnerships, rather than property management of day-to-day operations. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $5.3 million in the third quarter 2005 compared with $3.7 million in the third quarter 2004. Year-to-date activity fee and asset management income was $15.0 million compared with $15.1 million in the first nine months of 2004. The amount of this net operating income may vary each quarter depending upon the nature and timing of transactional activity.
 
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income was $7.4 million for the third quarter 2005, a decrease of $2.8 million compared with the third quarter 2004. Interest income in the third quarter 2004 benefited from transaction related accretion income of $2.5 million. Interest income was generated primarily from notes receivable totaling $205.8 million at September 30, 2005 and from interest-bearing accounts.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the third quarter 2005, Aimco closed 24 mortgage loans, including 23 refinancings of existing mortgage debt and one new mortgage loan on an acquired property. Total proceeds were $298.5 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.21%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners totaling $199.3 million, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $99.2 million.
At the end of the third quarter 2005, Aimco's corporate debt balance was $632.0 million at an average interest rate of 5.68%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility totaled $232 million, leaving $194.5 million (after $23.5 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. Please refer to Schedule 5 of the Supplemental Information for more detail on debt activity.
As of September 30, 2005, Aimco had $6.3 billion total debt outstanding of which $2.0 billion was floating rate. The floating rate debt included $632 million corporate debt, $638 million floating rate secured notes and $730 million of tax-exempt bonds.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $96.1 million for the third quarter 2005, an increase of $4.1 million from $92.0 million in the third quarter 2004. The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of: (i) $6.6 million due to increased debt balances primarily associated with acquisitions, refinancings and increased ownership; (ii) $1.5 million due to increased interest rates on corporate and variable rate property debt and other items; partially offset by (iii) $1.0 million related to lower interest rates on refinanced property debt; and (iv) $3.0 million higher capitalized interest due to increased redevelopment activity.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the third quarter 2005 of $23.1 million were up $4.7 million compared with $18.4 million in the third quarter 2004. The year-over-year increase is primarily due to increased compensation related to increased staffing levels, recruiting fees and higher health care costs.
Outlook
For the fourth quarter 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $0.69 to $0.71 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $0.45 to $0.47 per share.
For the full year 2005, FFO is forecast in a range from $2.68 to $2.70 ;per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $1.78 to $1.80 per share. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule for more detail on the fourth quarter and full year 2005, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on October 27, 2005, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, payable on November 30, 2005 to stockholders of record on November 18, 2005. The dividend represents 150% of AFFO (diluted) and 103% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 6.5% annualized yield based on the $36.93 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on October 26, 2005.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Third Quarter 2005 earnings conference call to be held Tuesday, November 1, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at , then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 877-845-9665, or 706-634-2273 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before
www.aimco.com/about/3q2005
 
the conference call is scheduled to begin and indicate that you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Third Quarter 2005 earnings conference call or refer to conference ID 9849263. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 800-642-1687 (706-645-9291 for international callers) and using conference ID 9849263.
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
www.aimco.com/about/3Q2005
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of fourth quarter and full year results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current occupancy, rent levels and "Same Store" results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 25 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates approximately 1,425 properties, including approximately 250,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
[a] The Aimco Operating Partnership is AIMCO Properties, L.P., the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure
[b] Income from discontinued operations of consolidated properties is broken down as follows (in thousands):
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2005 (unaudited)
The Outlook information provided on this Schedule contains information that is forward-looking, including statements concerning projected fourth quarter and full year 2005 results. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and projections about the markets and the industry in which Aimco operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are also based on certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to Aimco's ability to improve upon current occupancy, rent levels and "same store" results and the economic environment in which Aimco operates. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and will be affected by a variety of risks and factors including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that Aimco's cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including variations of real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
[a] Represents Aimco's numerator for earnings per common share calculated in accordance with GAAP.
[b] Includes amortization of management contracts where Aimco is the general partner. Such management contracts were established in certain instances where Aimco acquired a general partner interest in either a consolidated or an unconsolidated partnership. Because the recoverability of these management contracts depends primarily on the operations of the real estate owned by the limited partnerships, Aimco believes it is consistent with NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper to add back such amortization, as the White Paper directs the add back of amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real estate industry.
[c] "Minority partners' interest," means minority interest in our consolidated real estate partnerships.
[d] In accordance with GAAP, deficit distributions to minority partners are charges recognized in Aimco's income statement when cash is distributed to a non-controlling partner in a consolidated real estate partnership in excess of the positive balance in such partner's capital account, which is classified as minority interest on the balance sheet. Aimco records these charges for GAAP purposes even though there is no economic effect or cost. Deficit distributions to minority partners occur when the fair value of the underlying real estate exceeds its depreciated net book value because the underlying real estate has appreciated or maintained its value. As a result, the recognition of expense for deficit distributions to minority partners represents, in substance, either (1) recognition of depreciation previously allocated to the non-controlling partner or (2) a payment related to the non-controlling partner's share of real estate appreciation. Based on White Paper guidance that requires real estate depreciation and gains to be excluded from FFO, Aimco adds back deficit distributions and subtracts related recoveries in its reconciliation of net income to FFO.
[e] On October 1, 2003, NAREIT clarified its definition of FFO to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate FFO. Although Aimco's presentation conforms with the NAREIT definition, Aimco considers such approach to be inconsistent with the treatment of gains on dispositions of real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco no longer adds back impairment losses when computing FFO in accordance with this clarification. As a result, FFO for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 includes net impairment losses of $7.4 million and $10.1 million, respectively, and FFO for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004 includes net impairment losses of $10.0 million and $12.3 million, respectively.
[f] In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's July 31, 2003 interpretation of the Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, Aimco includes redemption related preferred stock issuance costs in FFO. As a result, FFO for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 includes issuance costs of zero and $1.1 million, respectively, and FFO for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004 includes issuance costs of $2.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
[g] Represents Aimco's denominator for earnings per common share  diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP plus additional common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO/AFFO.
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, AFFO and FCF:
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, AFFO and FCF:
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data As of September 30, 2005 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of September 30, 2005 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (Continued)
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of September 30, 2005 (in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings
THIRD QUARTER LOAN CLOSINGS
YEAR  TO  DATE LOAN CLOSINGS
IV. Capitalization
V. Ratings on Senior Unsecured Shelf
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Sales Third Quarter 2005 versus Third Quarter 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Sales Third Quarter 2005 versus Second Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Same Store Sales Nine Months Ended 2005 versus Nine Months Ended 2004 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data (unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET SELECTED MARKETS
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
 
THIRD QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY
 
YEAR  TO  DATE 2005 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY
 
THIRD QUARTER 2005 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
 
YEAR  TO  DATE 2005 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005 (in thousands, except per unit) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 (per unit is based on approximately 152,360 units which represent effective units (excluding non-managed units) weighted for the period):
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 10
 
Summary of 2005 Redevelopment Activity As of September 30, 2005 (in millions, except unit data) (values are not adjusted for Aimco's ownership unless indicated) (unaudited)
 
(1)  Leased units include pre-leased.
(2)  Excludes approved projects for which construction budgets and scopes are not finalized.
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of September 30, 2005 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Consolidated properties owned less than one year as of the beginning of the most recent quarter.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule I for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF is net operating income from real estate minus CR spending. FCF also includes cash flows generated from the investment management business, interest income, general and administrative expenses, provision for or recovery of losses on notes receivable and other expenses (income), net incurred by Aimco. FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Further, these properties would not be classified as held for sale. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


