FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20060803113627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated August 3, 2006, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its second quarter 2006 earnings conference call on August 3, 2006, at 1 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2006 by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-713-8567, passcode 75196624, or 617-597-5326 for international callers). If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international callers) and using passcode 43515539. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2006. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                      The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 3, 2006
 

 
 
Denver, Colorado August 3, 2006
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Second Quarter 2006 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced second quarter 2006 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Investor@Aimco.com Jennifer Martin, Vice President-Investor Relations 303.691.4440
Contact
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco enjoyed an excellent quarter. Rebounding property operations, boosted by a rising market, have produced eight consecutive quarters of increasing NOI and have outperformed industry peers for the past six quarters. Our focus on capital structure led to a zero balance on our line of credit, redemption of 10% preferred stock and issuance of Community Reinvestment Act Preferred Stock at an initial rate of 6.75%. And, we continue to further our systems and process improvements to realize the efficiencies offered by our scale. "
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds: "Strong second quarter performance driven by Same Store' operations resulted in FFO per share $0.02 above the mid-point of guidance. Due to higher than expected operating results we are raising our full year FFO guidance to $2.93 to $3.03 per share from $2.81 to $2.97 per share."
Property Operations
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations include Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the second quarter 2006, this portfolio had 503 properties with 144,324 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 82%. During the second quarter 2006, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $174.7 million.
"Same Store" Results
The Same Store portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties (see the Glossary). In the second quarter 2006, the Same Store portfolio included 434 communities with 102,995 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 82% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing Same Store results in the second quarter 2006 with the second quarter 2005, total revenue increased $19.5 million, or 8.2%. The increase in revenue was generated by: higher occupancy, up 320 basis points from 91.1% to 94.3%; higher average rent, up $26 per unit, or 3.4%, from $771 per unit to $797 per unit; and higher utility reimbursements, up $2.0 million. Same Store expenses of $108.8 million increased by $4.3 million, or 4.1%, compared with the second quarter 2005. Increased expenses were predominantly due to: higher utilities expense (mostly offset by higher utility reimbursement revenue); and higher property tax expense. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $148.8 million for the second quarter 2006, up 11.3% from the second quarter 2005.
Same Store Operating Results
 
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $4.2 million in the second quarter 2006 compared with the first quarter 2006, driven primarily by an $11 per unit increase in average rental rates. Expenses decreased $2.1 million, primarily due to lower utilities expense. Net operating income increased $6.3 million, or 4.4%, on a sequential basis.
Core Properties
Core properties (defined in the Glossary) offer the potential for higher long-term growth. Core operations are focused in 27 markets located predominantly in coastal states as well as the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. In the second quarter 2006, core properties within the "Same Store" portfolio accounted for 58% of effective units, yet accounted for 72% of net operating income. The core "Same Store" properties had the following operating characteristics compared with non-core properties (defined in the Glossary): average rents of $951 per month versus $614 per month; average occupancy of 95.1% versus 93.4%; and an average operating margin of 61.5% versus 49.8%. The average rental rate growth for "Same Store" core versus non-core properties in the second quarter 2006 compared with the second quarter 2005 was 5.1% and 1.7%, respectively. See Supplemental Schedule 7 for additional information on core and non-core property operations.
AIMCO CAPITAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS  Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. Aimco Capital has been organized to oversee Aimco's affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector.
At the end of the second quarter 2006, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 338 properties with 39,777 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 38%. During the second quarter 2006, affordable property operations including property management generated net operating income of $20.4 million. On a year-over-year basis, second quarter average month-end occupancy for the owned and managed portfolio increased 130 basis points from 95.9% to 97.2%, and average rent per unit increased 6.1% from $671 to $712 per unit.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  Aimco acquired three properties in the second quarter 2006 for $61 million. Acquisitions included: the Balaye Apartments, a 324-unit garden style property located in Tampa, Florida, for $38.5 million; Westpark Plaza, a 240-unit student housing property located less than one-half mile from California State University at Chico, purchased by Aimco's joint venture with CalSTRS; and Wilson Acres Apartments, a 146-unit student housing property located in Greenville, North Carolina less than one-half mile from East Carolina University.
During the second quarter 2006, Aimco purchased additional limited partnership interests in 17 partnerships that own 43 properties for an aggregate of $1.8 million. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria and are typically located in markets that Aimco seeks to exit. These properties are considered non-core and Aimco seeks to hold them over the intermediate term.
In the second quarter 2006, Aimco sold nine non-core conventional properties and ten affordable properties with 2,237 and 1,279 units, respectively, for $186 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $138 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $73 million. Year-to-date Aimco has sold 26 non-core conventional properties, the South Tower at its Flamingo South Beach property and 15 affordable properties for gross proceeds of $600 million (Aimco share $487 million) and exited one market. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Gain on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in gross gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains related to sales of unconsolidated entities and other and gains within discontinued operations), of $46.7 million for the second quarter 2006, compared with gains of $32.9 million for the second quarter 2005.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco is reinvesting in and upgrading its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the second quarter, Aimco had 28 active conventional projects and 14 active affordable projects. Aimco invested
 
$40.0 million in conventional redevelopment during the second quarter and $74.4 million year-to-date, with an average ownership of approximately 87%. Aimco expects to invest $150 million to $200 million in conventional redevelopment projects during 2006. Affordable redevelopment project expenditures totaled $14.3 million in the second quarter and $32.4 million year-to-date, with these projects predominantly funded by third parties. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco has additional development opportunities tied to successful property re-entitlement activity. In July, Aimco received final approval to increase the density at Highland Ridge, an older and well located property and typical of Aimco's entitlement opportunities. The 22 year old, garden style property is located in Atlanta, Georgia, near the $1 billion Atlantic Station project and within one-half mile of I-75. Density will be increased 59% from 219 to 348 units. Plans for three properties located in Denver were submitted for approval to the City of Denver in the first quarter and received the first level of approval in the second quarter. These Denver properties will progress to the next phase of City approvals. Orchidtree, an active project located in Scottsdale, Arizona was sold for a gain of $21 million.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated from the management of properties in which Aimco has unconsolidated interests. Income from consolidated properties is eliminated in Aimco's consolidated GAAP financial statements. Property management net operating income was $1.4 million in the second quarter 2006 compared with $4.1 million in the second quarter 2005. As discussed on page one, as a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5, Aimco consolidated an additional 149 properties in the first quarter 2006, which reduced the reported amounts of property management revenues from previously unconsolidated properties. The economic benefit of the fees charged to consolidated properties is reflected in minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactions (including tax credit redevelopments, syndications, dispositions, refinancings and partnership promotes) and are earned primarily by Aimco Capital. Aimco Capital earns asset management income from the financial management of partnerships, rather than property management of day-to-day operations. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $8.9 million in the second quarter 2006 compared with $4.4 million in the second quarter 2005, or $6.4 and $2.4 million net of the effective tax rate, respectively.
Included in activity fee and asset management income, Aimco received $0.9 million in "promote income" from an unconsolidated partnership. This income reflects provisions within the partnership agreement that reward the general partner for achieving financial returns to the limited partners in excess of established targets.
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income was $5.6 million for the second quarter 2006 compared with $7.3 million for the second quarter 2005. Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the second quarter 2006, Aimco closed 22 property loans generating total proceeds of $309 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.70%. This included refinancing $158.6 million in existing mortgage loans, reducing the average rate from 6.03% to 5.70%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $128.3 million.
At quarter-end, Aimco's corporate debt balance was reduced to $400.0 million from $617.0 million at year-end 2005 and carried an average interest rate of 6.64%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility was reduced to zero, leaving $422.5 million (after $27.5 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. Please refer to Schedule 5 of the Supplemental Information for more detail on debt activity.
As of June 30, 2006, Aimco had $6.6 billion total consolidated debt outstanding of which $1.68 billion was floating rate. The floating rate debt included $400 million corporate debt, $558 million floating rate property loans and $726 million of tax-exempt bonds. Aimco's floating rate debt exposure to changes in interest rates is mitigated by: tax-exempt bonds, which move at approximately 0.68% for a 1.00% change in interest rates; the offsetting effect of floating rate assets such as cash
 
and notes receivable; and interest capitalized on redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances (see Supplemental Schedule 3), Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 1% change in LIBOR to be less than $0.01 per share per quarter.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $103.5 million for the second quarter 2006 compared with $86.3 million for the second quarter 2005. The $17.2 million increase in interest expense was due to: $14.6 million representing interest on property loans that were consolidated in 2006 primarily as a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5; and $3.4 million related to increased rates and balances on property debt net of higher capitalized interest; partially offset by a ($0.8) million improvement in interest expense related to corporate debt due to lower balances net of increased rates.
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  As previously announced, on June 29, 2006, Aimco completed the private placement of 200 shares of newly issued, variable rate Series A Community Reinvestment Act Perpetual Preferred Stock ("CRA Preferred Stock"). Each share has a liquidation preference of $500,000. Net proceeds from the offering, after offering expenses, were $98 million. The dividend rate is equal to the three-month LIBOR rate plus 1.25%, calculated as of the beginning of each quarterly dividend period. The dividend rate from the period of original issuance through September 30, 2006 is 6.75% per annum. Aimco believes the CRA Preferred Stock will allow the financial institution purchasers to receive positive consideration under the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"). Through an allocation methodology, investing institutions are able to allocate their investment to specific affordable properties owned by Aimco that are located in the financial institutions' self-delineated geographic CRA assessment area.
Also previously announced, Aimco redeemed all 6.94 million outstanding shares of its 10.0% Class R Preferred Stock on July 20, 2006, for a redemption price of $25 per share plus unpaid dividends of $0.243 per share, for a total of $175.2 million. Year-to-date, Aimco has redeemed $287 million in preferred stock that carried a weighted average dividend rate of 9.8%.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the second quarter 2006 of $24.8 million were up $3.1 million compared with $21.7 million in the second quarter 2005. The year-over-year increase is due to accruals for incentive compensation based on year-to-date results above the prior year.
Outlook
For the third quarter 2006, FFO is forecast in a range from $0.73 to $0.77 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $0.54 to $0.58 per share.
For the full year 2006, FFO is forecast in a range from $2.93 to $3.03 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $2.30 to $2.40 per share, increased from estimate ranges provided in February 2006 of $2.81 to $2.97 per share FFO and $2.18 to $2.34 per share AFFO. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release, for more detail on the third quarter and full year 2006.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on August 1, 2006, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, payable on August 31, 2006, to stockholders of record on August 18, 2006. The dividend represents 113% of AFFO (diluted) and 82% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 5.5% annualized yield based on the $43.45 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on June 30, 2006.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Second Quarter 2006 earnings conference call to be held Thursday, August 3, 2006, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2006 then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you
 
may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 866-713-8567 with passcode 75196624, or dialing 617-597-5326 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international callers) and using passcode 43515539.
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2006
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year 2006 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 19 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates 1,320 properties, including approximately 230,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
[a] The Aimco Operating Partnership is AIMCO Properties, L.P., the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure
[b] Income from discontinued operations of consolidated properties is broken down as follows (in thousands):
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Third Quarter and Full Year 2006 (unaudited)
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year 2006 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation Three Months Ended June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a) (continued)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation Three Months Ended June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b) (continued)
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data As of June 30, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2006 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (continued)
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2006 (in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Sales Second Quarter 2006 Compared to Second Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Sales Second Quarter 2006 Compared to First Quarter 2006 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Same Store Sales Six Months Ended 2006 Compared to Six Months Ended 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data (unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET SELECTED MARKETS
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
SECOND QUARTER 2006 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2006 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
 
YEAR-TO-DATE 2006 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions) (1)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the six months ended June 30, 2006. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 137,767 average units in the quarter including 122,738 conventional and 15,029 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. (1)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of June 30, 2006 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Consolidated properties owned less than one year as of the beginning of the most recent quarter.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. FCF is comprised of AFFO (defined above), with adjustments to add back interest expense, minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, and preferred dividends. Because Aimco has unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions.
Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


