FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20060504124327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated May 4, 2006, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its first quarter 2006 earnings conference call on May 4, 2006 at 1 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/1Q2006 by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-510-0708, passcode 43902495, or 617-597-5377 for international callers. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international callers) and using access code 60651958. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/1Q2006. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: May 4, 2006
 

 
 
Denver, Colorado  May 4, 2006
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces First Quarter 2006 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced first quarter 2006 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Contact
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Jennifer Martin, Vice President-Investor Relations 303.691.4440
Investor@Aimco.com
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "It was a solid quarter: Property operations are improving and NOI has increased in each of the past seven quarters. We realized substantial profit from the sale of the South Tower at Flamingo South Beach. G&A is down from the fourth quarter and our balance sheet is stronger."
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds: "Our first quarter FFO was $0.04 per share higher than the mid-point of guidance, which reflects continued strength and improvement in conventional property operations. Same store net operating income was $0.04 per share above the mid-point of guidance, driven by better than expected first quarter revenue and lower than expected expenses. We are establishing second quarter FFO guidance of $0.69 to $0.73 per share."
Property Operations
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations include Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the first quarter 2006, this portfolio had 509 properties with 145,851 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 82%. During the first quarter 2006, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $165.1 million.
"Same Store" Results
The Same Store portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties (see the Glossary). In the first quarter 2006, the Same Store portfolio included 448 communities with 106,327 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 82% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing Same Store results in the first quarter 2006 with the first quarter 2005, total revenue increased $20.5 million, or 8.5%. The increase in revenue was generated by: higher occupancy, up 420 basis points from 90.3% to 94.5%; higher average rent, up $24 per unit, or 3.1%, from $765 per unit to $789 per unit; and lower bad debt, down $0.5 million to 0.7% of revenue. Same Store expenses of $114.8 million increased by $7.8 million, or 7.3%, compared with the first quarter 2005. Increased expenses were predominantly due to: higher utilities expense, due mostly to a 35% increase in natural gas cost; higher insurance expense; and higher property tax expense; all partially offset by lower contract services expenses. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $147.9 million for the first quarter 2006, up 9.4% from the first quarter 2005.
Same Store Operating Results
 
 
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $2.9 million in the first quarter 2006 compared with the fourth quarter 2005, driven primarily by a $5 per unit increase in average rental rates, lower bad debt and higher utility reimbursement revenue. Expenses increased $1.7 million, primarily due to higher utilities expenses and property taxes, partially offset by lower unit turnover costs and lower repairs and maintenance expenses. Net operating income increased $1.2 million, or 0.8%, on a sequential basis.
Core Properties
Core properties (defined in the Glossary) offer the potential for higher long-term growth. Core operations are focused in 27 markets located predominantly in coastal states as well as the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. In the first quarter 2006, core properties within the "Same Store" portfolio accounted for 57% of effective units, yet accounted for 72% of net operating income. The core "Same Store" properties had the following operating characteristics compared with non-core properties (defined in the Glossary): average rents of $944 per month versus $607 per month; average occupancy of 95.5% versus 93.5%; and an average operating margin of 59.7% versus 49.0%. The average rental rate growth for "Same Store" core versus non-core properties in the first quarter 2006 compared with the first quarter 2005 was 4.8% and 1.2%, respectively. See Supplemental Schedule 7 for additional information on core and non-core property operations.
AIMCO CAPITAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS  Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. Aimco Capital has been organized to oversee Aimco's affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector.
At the end of the first quarter 2006, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 350 properties with 41,375 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 39%. During the first quarter 2006, affordable property operations including property management generated net operating income of $18.3 million. On a year-over-year basis, first quarter average month-end occupancy for the owned and managed portfolio increased 140 basis points from 95.9% to 97.3%, and average rent per unit increased 4.8% from $666 to $698 per unit.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  Aimco did not acquire any properties in the first quarter 2006.
During the first quarter 2006, Aimco purchased additional limited partnership interests in 18 partnerships that own 68 properties for an aggregate of $0.4 million. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria and are typically located in markets that Aimco seeks to exit. These properties are considered non-core and Aimco seeks to hold them over the intermediate term.
In the first quarter 2006, Aimco sold 17 non-core conventional properties and five affordable properties with 4,792 and 668 units, respectively. In addition, as announced February 18, 2006, Aimco sold the South Tower at its Flamingo South Beach property, a core property located in South Beach, Florida. The $151 million transaction included 562 residential units and rights to the property's marina. The buyer also paid Aimco $5 million for the option to purchase the North and Central Towers at future dates. Gross proceeds from all property sales were $414 million (Aimco share $349 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $172 million. See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Gain on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in gross gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains related to sales of unconsolidated entities and other and gains within discontinued operations), of $109.6 million for the first quarter 2006, compared with gains of $9.0 million for the first quarter 2005.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco is actively reinvesting in and upgrading its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the first quarter, Aimco had 22 active conventional projects and 22 active affordable projects. Aimco invested $34.4 million in conventional redevelopment during the first quarter and expects to invest $150 million to $200 million in conventional redevelopment projects during 2006. Affordable redevelopment project expenditures totaled
 
$18.1 million in the first quarter, with these projects predominantly funded by third parties. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco has additional development opportunities tied to successful property re-entitlement activity. During the first quarter entitlements progressed for several properties. In addition, plans were submitted to the City of Denver for three potential projects.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated from the management of properties in which Aimco has unconsolidated interests. Income from consolidated properties is eliminated in Aimco's consolidated GAAP financial statements. Property management net operating income was $2.5 million in the first quarter 2006 compared with $4.7 million in the first quarter 2005. As discussed on page one, as a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5, Aimco consolidated an additional 149 properties in the first quarter 2006, which reduced the reported amounts of property management revenues from unconsolidated properties. The economic benefit of the fees charged to consolidated properties is reflected in minority interest in consolidated real estate partnerships.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactions (including tax credit redevelopments, syndications, dispositions, refinancings and partnership promotes) and are earned primarily by Aimco Capital. Aimco Capital earns asset management income from the financial management of partnerships, rather than property management of day-to-day operations. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $7.1 million in the first quarter 2006 compared with $5.4 million in the first quarter 2005, or $5.0 and $3.2 million net of the effective tax rate, respectively.
Included in activity fee and asset management income, Aimco received $1.9 million in "promote income" from an unconsolidated partnership. This income reflects provisions within the partnership agreement that reward the general partner for achieving financial returns to the limited partners in excess of established targets.
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income was $7.1 million for the first quarter 2006 compared with $7.4 million for the first quarter 2005. Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the first quarter 2006, Aimco closed 11 property loans. Total proceeds were $371.7 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.53%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners totaling $153.4 million, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $218.3 million.
At quarter-end, Aimco's corporate debt balance was reduced to $442.0 million from $617.0 million at year-end 2005 and carried an average interest rate of 6.33%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility totaled $42.0 million, leaving $380.5 million (after $27.5 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. Please refer to Schedule 5 of the Supplemental Information for more detail on debt activity.
As of March 31, 2006, Aimco had $6.7 billion total consolidated debt outstanding of which $1.85 billion was floating rate. The floating rate debt included $442 million corporate debt, $683 million floating rate property loans and $726 million of tax-exempt bonds. Aimco's floating rate debt exposure to changes in interest rates is mitigated by: tax-exempt bonds, which move at approximately 0.68% for a 1.00% change in interest rates; the offsetting effect of floating rate assets such as cash and notes receivable; and interest capitalized on redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances (see Supplemental Schedule 3), Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 1% change in LIBOR to be $0.014 per share per quarter.
On March 22, 2006, Aimco amended its revolving line of credit and corporate term loan. Amendments: reduced the variable interest rate on the term loan to LIBOR plus 1.5%, an average reduction of 37.5 basis points; reduced the variable interest rate on the revolver by an expected 50 to 75 basis points, depending on Aimco's leverage; and extended the maturities of the term loan to March 22, 2011 and the revolver to May 1, 2009.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $102.3 million for the first quarter 2006 compared with $84.4 million for the first quarter 2005. The $17.9 million increase in interest expense was due primarily to: $11.2 million representing interest on property loans that were consolidated in 2006 as a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5; $3.7 million as a result of an increase in the average rates and balances on the corporate debt; and $3.0 million related to increased rates and balances on property debt net of higher capitalized interest.
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  As previously announced, Aimco redeemed all 2.53 million outstanding shares of its 10.1% Class Q Preferred Stock on March 19, 2006 for a redemption price per share of $25 plus unpaid dividends of $0.035 per share, for a total of $63.34 million. Aimco also redeemed all 2 million outstanding shares of its 8.5% Class X Preferred Stock on March 31, 2006 for a redemption price per share of $25 plus unpaid dividends of $0.53125 per share, for a total of $51.06 million.
As a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5, Aimco recorded a charge of $73.5 million in distributions in excess of earnings, a component of stockholders' equity. The charge reflects cumulative net losses of certain properties that would have been recognized if the newly consolidated properties had been consolidated in prior periods. Substantially all of those losses are attributable to real estate depreciation.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the first quarter 2006 of $22.7 million were up $1.8 million compared with $20.9 million in the first quarter 2005. The year-over-year increase is primarily due to accruals for incentive compensation based on first quarter results above the prior year.
Outlook
For the second quarter 2006, FFO is forecast in a range from $0.69 to $0.73 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $0.45 to $0.49 per share.
For the full year 2006, FFO is forecast in a range from $2.81 to $2.97 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is forecast in a range from $2.18 to $2.34 per share, unchanged from the estimate provided in February 2006. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release, for more detail on the second quarter and full year 2006.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on May 2, 2006, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, payable on May 31, 2006, to stockholders of record on May 19, 2006. The dividend represents 109% of AFFO (diluted) and 88% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 5.1% annualized yield based on the $46.90 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on March 31, 2006.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the First Quarter 2006 earnings conference call to be held Thursday, May 4, 2006, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 866-510-0708 with passcode 43902495, or dialing 617-597-5377 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international callers) and using passcode 60651958.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/1Q02006
 
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/1Q2006
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of second quarter and full year 2006 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 19 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries, operates 1,337 properties, including approximately 234,000 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are included in the S&P 500.
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
[a] The Aimco Operating Partnership is AIMCO Properties, L.P., the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure
[b] Income from discontinued operations of consolidated properties is broken down as follows (in thousands):
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Second Quarter and Full Year 2006 (unaudited)
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of second quarter and full year 2006 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
(1) Aimco's earnings per share guidance does not include estimates for (i) unrecognized gains on dispositions or impairment losses due to the unpredictable timing of transactions or (ii) unrecognized deferred costs on early repayment of debt or redemption related preferred stock issuance charges.
(2) FFO per share represents FFO before impairments and redemption related preferred stock issuance charges. Redemption related preferred stock issuance charges were $0.02 per share in the first quarter of 2006 and are expected to be $0.04 per share in the third quarter.
(3) Aimco anticipates gross sales proceeds of $850 to $1,050 million for 2006 ($665 to $775 million related to conventional properties and $185 to $275 million related to affordable properties). Aimco share of proceeds is expected to be $675 to $800 million ($600 to $685 million related to conventional properties and $75 to $115 million related to affordable properties). Aimco estimates that its share of cash from these dispositions, net of mortgage debt and third-party equity interests, will be $350 to $450 million ($300 to $375 million related to conventional properties and $50 to $75 million related to affordable properties).
(4) Gross acquisitions include property acquisitions and limited partnership acquisitions.
(5) As provided on February 9, 2006.
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
[a] Represents Aimco's numerator for earnings per common share calculated in accordance with GAAP.
[b] Includes amortization of management contracts where Aimco is the general partner. Such management contracts were established in certain instances where Aimco acquired a general partner interest in either a consolidated or an unconsolidated partnership. Because the recoverability of these management contracts depends primarily on the operations of the real estate owned by the limited partnerships, Aimco believes it is consistent with NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper to add back such amortization, as the White Paper directs the add back of amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real estate industry.
[c] "Minority partners' interest" means minority interest in our consolidated real estate partnerships.
[d] In accordance with GAAP, deficit distributions to minority partners are charges recognized in Aimco's income statement when cash is distributed to a non-controlling partner in a consolidated real estate partnership in excess of the positive balance in such partner's capital account, which is classified as minority interest on the balance sheet. Aimco records these charges for GAAP purposes even though there is no economic effect or cost. Deficit distributions to minority partners occur when the fair value of the underlying real estate exceeds its depreciated net book value because the underlying real estate has appreciated or maintained its value. As a result, the recognition of expense for deficit distributions to minority partners represents, in substance, either (1) recognition of depreciation previously allocated to the non-controlling partner or (2) a payment related to the non-controlling partner's share of real estate appreciation. Based on White Paper guidance that requires real estate depreciation and gains to be excluded from FFO, Aimco adds back deficit distributions and subtracts related recoveries in its reconciliation of net income to FFO.
[e] On October 1, 2003, NAREIT clarified its definition of FFO to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate FFO. Although Aimco's presentation conforms with the NAREIT definition, Aimco considers such approach to be inconsistent with the treatment of gains on dispositions of real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco no longer adds back impairment losses when computing FFO in accordance with this clarification. As a result, FFO for the three months ended March 31, 2006 includes $0.8 million of net impairment recoveries. FFO for the three months ended March 31, 2005 includes $2.2 million of net impairment losses.
[f] In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's July 31, 2003 interpretation of the Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, Aimco includes redemption related preferred stock issuance costs in FFO. As a result, FFO for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 includes issuance costs of $2.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
[g] Represents Aimco's denominator for earnings per common share  diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP plus additional common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO/AFFO.
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 2
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Business Component Proportionate Income Statement Presentation For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, AFFO and FCF:
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 3
Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of March 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data As of March 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of March 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities Consolidated Property Debt
Corporate Debt
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (Continued)
Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of March 31, 2006 (in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings FIRST QUARTER LOAN CLOSINGS
IV. Capitalization
V. Ratings on Senior Unsecured Shelf
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Sales First Quarter 2006 Compared to First Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Sales First Quarter 2006 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 (unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET
SELECTED MARKETS
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity
(unaudited)
FIRST QUARTER 2006 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
FIRST QUARTER 2006 ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
During the three months ended March 31, 2006, we acquired additional partnership interests for $0.4 million.
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
     All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
     The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the three months ended March 31,2006. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 139,191 average units in the quarter including 123,897 conventional and 15,294 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. (1)
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 10
s
Summary of Redevelopment Activity For the Three Month
Ended March 31, 2006 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of March 31, 2006 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Consolidated properties owned less than one year as of the beginning of the most recent quarter.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF is net operating income from real estate minus CR spending. FCF also includes cash flows generated from the investment management business, interest income, general and administrative expenses, provision for or recovery of losses on notes receivable and other expenses (income), net incurred by Aimco. FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital.
Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


