FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20070802115826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
  
ITEM 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated August 2, 2007, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its second quarter 2007 earnings conference call on August 2, 2007, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at by clicking on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-798-2801, passcode 50113575, or 617-614-6205 for international callers. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2007
     If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 888-286-8010 (617-801-6888 for international callers) and using passcode 65361235. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at . The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2007
  
ITEM 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                    The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 2, 2007
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Denver, Colorado August 2, 2007
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Second Quarter 2007 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced second quarter 2007 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Contact
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations 303.691.4327
Investor@Aimco.com
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Apartment fundamentals continued to be positive in the second quarter with conventional same-store revenue growth of 5.2%. We are on track to invest $300 million in conventional redevelopment projects with 48 communities under redevelopment at the end of the quarter. Our asset management and transaction businesses are growing with a year-over-year increase in net income of 59%. We are looking forward to continued positive momentum in the second half of 2007."
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds: "Our second quarter FFO of $0.88 per share was $0.08 above the mid-point of guidance. Positive results for the quarter included lower casualty losses and higher Aimco Capital transaction income than was considered in guidance. We are establishing third quarter FFO guidance of $0.80 to $0.84 per share and adjusting our full year FFO guidance to $3.33 to $3.43 per share."
Property Operations
Conventional Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of market rate properties in the United States. Conventional real estate operations consist of Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the second quarter 2007, this portfolio included 454 properties with 131,242 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 86%. During the second quarter 2007, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $177.7 million.
"Same Store" Results
The Same Store portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties (see the Glossary). In the second quarter 2007, the Same Store portfolio included 376 communities with 95,924 Effective Units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 86% (See Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing Same Store results in the second quarter 2007 with the second quarter 2006, total revenue increased $12.9 million, or 5.2%. The increase in revenue was primarily generated by higher average rent, up $34 per unit, or 4.1%, from $830 per unit to $864 per unit, higher occupancy, which was up 0.3% from 94.4% to 94.7%, and increased utility reimbursements, up $2.1 million. Same Store expenses of $109.2 million increased $6.8 million, or 6.7%, compared with the prior year period as a result of higher taxes, insurance, utilities, marketing and payroll. Full year 2007 Same Store expenses are expected to be up 3.5% to 4.0% when compared to full year 2006. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $154.3 million for the second quarter 2007, up 4.1% from the second quarter 2006.
Same Store Operating Results
 
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $4.6 million in the second quarter 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2007, driven by a $6 per unit increase in average rental rates and an increase in occupancy of 0.3%. Expenses increased $2.1 million, or 2.0%, primarily due to higher payroll, repairs and maintenance and training expenses, offset by lower utilities. Net operating income increased $2.5 million, or 1.6%, on a sequential basis.
Affordable Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. At the end of the second quarter 2007, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 323 properties with 37,457 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 51%. During the second quarter 2007, affordable property operations generated net operating income of $21.4 million. On a year-over-year basis, second quarter average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio decreased 20 basis points from 97.5% to 97.3%, and average rent per unit increased 3.6% from $696 to $721 per unit.
Aimco Capital
Aimco Capital oversees all of Aimco's asset management, transaction and portfolio management activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this business.
Asset Management and Transactions
Asset management income is earned from the financial management of partnerships. Transaction income is earned from activities such as dispositions, refinancings, land sales and tax credit syndications. Proceeds received in exchange for the transfer of tax credits are recognized ratably as the tax benefits are delivered, and syndication fees are recognized upon completion of tax credit syndications. Consolidated asset management and transaction net operating income, net of tax, was $8.6 million in the second quarter 2007 up 59% when compared to $5.4 million in the second quarter 2006. See Supplemental Schedule 11 for additional information on asset management and transaction income.
Portfolio Management
ACQUISITIONS  Aimco acquired nine properties in the second quarter 2007 for $112.4 million. Acquisitions included: Leahy Square located in Redwood City, CA with 110 units that Aimco purchased for $23.0 million or $209,091 per unit; Hudson Harbour located in Poughkeepsie, NY with 352 units that Aimco purchased for $37.0 million or $105,114 per unit; 204-206 West 133 Street located in New York City with 44 units that Aimco purchased for $4.6 million or $104,545 per unit; 656 St. Nicholas Avenue located in New York City with 30 units that Aimco purchased for $4.3 million or $141,667 per unit; and 181 units located in the 2200-2400 blocks of Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard in New York City for a total of $43.5 million or an average of $240,331 per unit.
rd
During the second quarter 2007, Aimco acquired seven properties owned by VMS National Properties Joint Venture, a consolidated real estate partnership in which Aimco held a 22% interest prior to the transaction. The portion of the Venture's real estate not owned by Aimco prior to the transaction was acquired in exchange for consideration totaling $179.4 million. Aimco also purchased additional limited partnership interests in 22 partnerships that own 59 properties for an aggregate of $8.9 million.
DISPOSITIONS  Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria. In the second quarter 2007, Aimco sold 22 conventional properties and six affordable properties with 3,993 and 629 units, respectively, for $201.1 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $122.4 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $71.7 million.
Aimco's property dispositions resulted in gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other and gains within discontinued operations), of $24.9 million for the second quarter 2007, compared with gains of $44.2 million for the second quarter 2006.
See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition and disposition activity.
 
Redevelopment
Aimco is actively reinvesting in and upgrading its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the second quarter 2007, Aimco had 48 active conventional redevelopment projects and 10 active tax credit redevelopment projects. Aimco's share of total redevelopment expenditures was $66.6 million during the second quarter 2007. Conventional redevelopment project expenditures totaled $56.8 million and tax credit redevelopment project expenditures totaled $9.8 million for the quarter. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated when Aimco provides property management services to properties with unaffiliated partners. Income from consolidated properties is eliminated in Aimco's consolidated GAAP financial statements and the related economic benefit is reflected in minority interest.
INTEREST INCOME  Consolidated interest income was $9.2 million for the second quarter 2007 compared with $5.4 million for the second quarter 2006. Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as on notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships and non-affiliates.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the second quarter 2007, Aimco closed 19 property loans generating gross proceeds of $229.8 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.53%. This included refinancing $60.8 million in existing mortgage loans, reducing the average interest rate from 5.93% to 5.46%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $140.3 million.
At quarter-end, Aimco's corporate debt balance was $554.0 million, up from $540.0 million at year-end 2006, and carried a weighted average interest rate of 6.82%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility was $154.0 million, leaving $256.2 million (after $39.8 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity.
As of June 30, 2007, Aimco had $7.1 billion of consolidated debt outstanding (excluding other borrowings), of which $5.4 billion was fixed rate mortgage debt and $1.7 billion was floating rate debt. The floating rate debt included $554.0 million of corporate debt, $692.6 million of tax-exempt bonds, and $461.8 million of other property loans. In addition, Aimco had $100.0 million of floating rate preferred stock. Aimco's FFO exposure to changes in floating interest rates is mitigated by tax-exempt bonds with rates tied to the Bond Market Association Index which moves at approximately 0.68% for a 1.00% change in LIBOR. Exposure is further offset by floating rate assets, such as cash and notes receivable, and interest capitalized on entitlement and redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances (see Supplemental Schedule 3), Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 100 basis point change in LIBOR to be approximately $0.02 per share per quarter. Other borrowings of $59.8 million at quarter-end consisted primarily of unsecured notes payable and obligations under sale and leaseback arrangements accounted for as financings. As of June 30, 2007, other borrowings included $51.3 million of fixed rate obligations with interest rates ranging from zero to 10.00%, and $8.5 million of variable rate obligations bearing interest at the prime rate plus 1.75%.
See Supplemental Schedule 5 for more detail on debt characteristics and activity.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $104.9 million for the second quarter 2007 compared with $98.2 million for the second quarter 2006. The $6.7 million increase in interest expense is related to increased rates and higher balances on property debt, net of higher capitalized interest.
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  During the second quarter 2007, Aimco repurchased 477,300 shares of its Class A Common Stock at an average price of $52.36 per share for a total cost of $25.0 million. On July 31, 2007, our Board of Directors increased our existing share repurchase authorization. We are currently authorized to repurchase approximately 13.5 million shares. These repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
 
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the second quarter 2007 of $24.6 million were up $1.4 million or 6.0% when compared with the second quarter 2006. The year-over-year increase in G&A was primarily due to increased compensation costs and related expenses, which were offset by a decrease in professional fees.
Outlook
For the third quarter 2007, FFO is expected to be in a range from $0.80 to $0.84 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and we are increasing our full year FFO guidance to $3.33 to $3.43 per share. The full year 2007 AFFO outlook of greater than $2.40 per share is unchanged. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release, for more detail on third quarter and full year 2007 guidance.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on August 1, 2007, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, payable on August 31, 2007, to stockholders of record on August 17, 2007. The dividend represents 94% of AFFO (diluted) and 68% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 4.8% annualized yield based on the $50.42 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on June 29, 2007.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Second Quarter 2007 earnings conference call to be held Thursday, August 2, 2007, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's Website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 800-798-2801 with passcode 50113575, or dialing 617-614-6205 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 888-286-8010, 617-801-6888 for international callers, and using passcode 65361235.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2007
 
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available on Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/2Q2007
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year 2007 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy levels, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 20 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is one of the largest owners and operators of apartment communities in the United States with 1,216 properties, including 209,507 apartment units, and serves approximately 750,000 residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our web site at .
www.aimco.com
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
[a] The Aimco Operating Partnership is AIMCO Properties, L.P., the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure.
[b] Income from discontinued operations of consolidated properties consists of the following (in thousands):
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Third Quarter and Full Year 2007 (unaudited)
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year 2007 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate transactional income as anticipated.
Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco.
Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
 
AIMCO 2nd Quarter 2007
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
[1] Represents the numerator for calculating basic earnings per common share in accordance with GAAP.
[2] Includes amortization of management contracts where Aimco is the general partner. Such management contracts were established in certain instances where Aimco acquired a general partner interest in either a consolidated or an unconsolidated partnership. Because the recoverability of these management contracts depends primarily on the operations of the real estate owned by the limited partnerships, Aimco believes it is consistent with NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper to add back such amortization, as the White Paper directs the add back of amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real estate industry.
[3] "Minority partners' interest" means minority interest in our consolidated real estate partnerships.
[4] In accordance with GAAP, deficit distributions to minority partners are charges recognized in Aimco's income statement when cash is distributed to a non-controlling partner in a consolidated real estate partnership in excess of the positive balance in such partner's capital account, which is classified as minority interest on the balance sheet. Aimco records these charges for GAAP purposes even though there is no economic effect or cost. Deficit distributions to minority partners occur when the fair value of the underlying real estate exceeds its depreciated net book value because the underlying real estate has appreciated or maintained its value. As a result, the recognition of expense for deficit distributions to minority partners represents, in substance, either (1) recognition of depreciation previously allocated to the non-controlling partner or (2) a payment related to the non-controlling partner's share of real estate appreciation. Based on White Paper guidance that requires real estate depreciation and gains to be excluded from FFO, Aimco adds back deficit distributions and subtracts related recoveries in its reconciliation of net income to FFO.
[5] On October 1, 2003, NAREIT clarified its definition of FFO to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate FFO. Although Aimco's presentation conforms with the NAREIT definition, Aimco considers such approach to be inconsistent with the treatment of gains on dispositions of real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco no longer adds back impairment losses when computing FFO in accordance with this clarification. As a result, FFO for the three months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 includes recoveries of impairment losses of $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, and FFO for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 includes impairment losses of $0.8 million and recoveries of impairment losses of $1.0 million, respectively.
[6] In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's July 31, 2003 interpretation of the Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, Aimco includes redemption related preferred stock issuance costs in FFO. As a result, FFO for the six months ended June 30, 2006 includes issuance costs of $2.6 million.
[7] Represents the denominator for calculating Aimco's diluted earnings per common share in accordance with GAAP plus additional common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO or AFFO.
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
(See footnotes on page 2 of 2)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Notes to Schedule 2:
[1] See definitions and descriptions in Glossary.
[2] Same store amounts in this schedule may differ from the same store amounts in Schedule 6. Any such differences are the result of (a) certain variations in the treatment of intercompany eliminations in GAAP versus non-GAAP measures and (b) the effect of changing ownership percentages over time due to Aimco's acquisition of additional partnership interests.
[3] Property management revenues reported in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect fees charged to unconsolidated properties. Property management revenues reported in the proportionate income statement reflect the minority partners' share of fees charged to both consolidated and unconsolidated properties.
[4] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of consolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect Aimco's share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
[5] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of unconsolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect minority partners' share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of June 30, 2007 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 Share Data As of June 30, 2007 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
Common Stock and Equivalents
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2007 (dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
Consolidated Property Debt:
Corporate Debt:
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (continued) Selected Debt Structure and Maturity Data As of June 30, 2007 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
III. Loan Closings
[1] Aimco net proceeds is after transaction costs and any release of escrow funds.
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Operating Results Second Quarter 2007 Compared to Second Quarter 2006 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Operating Results Second Quarter 2007 Compared to First Quarter 2007 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
     
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Same Store Operating Results Six Months Ended June 30, 2007 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7 Selected Conventional Portfolio Performance Data (unaudited)
SAME STORE PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO  SUMMARY BY MARKET
 
Supplemental Schedule 8 Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
SECOND QUARTER 2007 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2007 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
SECOND QUARTER 2007 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions) [1]
YEAR-TO-DATE 2007 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
 
Supplemental Schedule 9 Capital Expenditures Six Months Ended June 30, 2007 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties, redevelopment or entitlement. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties, redevelopment and entitlement for the six months ended June 30, 2007. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 132,088 average units, including 114,057 conventional and 18,031 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity Six Months Ended June 30, 2007 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Aimco Capital (in thousands, unaudited)
Asset Management and Transaction Income
Notes
Summary of Projected Tax Credit Income as of June 30, 2007 [1]
Notes
 
Supplemental Schedule 12
Apartment Unit Summary As of June 30, 2007 (unaudited)
 
Glossary
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Properties that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statements of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Supplemental Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statements of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. FCF is comprised of AFFO (defined above), with adjustments to add back interest expense, minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, and preferred dividends. Because Aimco has unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
 
Glossary (continued)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Conventional properties that have significant rent control restrictions, University Housing properties that have been owned for more than one year and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


