FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20070208124706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
      
      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
     The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated February 8, 2007, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference call on February 8, 2007, at 1 p.m. eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's website at then click on the webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 800-299-0433 with passcode 30824761, or dialing 617-801-9712 for international callers. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's website or by dialing 888-286-8010, 617-801-6888 for international callers, and using passcode 69021654. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at . The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/4Q2006
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/4Q2006
                    The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 8, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Denver, Colorado February 8, 2007
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Fourth Quarter 2006 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) announced fourth quarter 2006 results including:
Diluted Per Share Results
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations 303.691.4327
Contact
Investor@Aimco.com
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco's property operations had a strong quarter, completing a year of solid rental rate growth and continued cost containment that produced same store NOI growth of 9.5% compared to 2005. Redevelopment and entitlement activities continued to create net asset value. Our tax credit business had a record quarter contributing $0.10, after tax, to FFO. Fourth quarter G&A costs are 4% lower than a year ago. 2006 was a good year for Aimco and we look forward to continued growth and success in 2007."
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds: "Robust property operations and our growing tax credit business were primary contributors to our 16% growth in normalized FFO in 2006. We are pleased to report that we covered our 2006 dividends with AFFO. Looking ahead to 2007, we expect FFO of $0.71 to $0.75 per share in the first quarter and $3.25 to $3.40 for the year. We are optimistic as we enter 2007 with a solid operating platform and growth engines necessary to achieve another year of strong performance."
Property Operations
CONVENTIONAL REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS  Conventional real estate operations consist of Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the fourth quarter 2006, this portfolio had 469 properties with 135,289 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 85%. During the fourth quarter 2006, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $178.1 million.
"Same Store" Results
The Same Store portfolio is a sub-set of total conventional properties (see the Glossary). In the fourth quarter 2006, the Same Store portfolio included 408 communities with 99,101 effective units based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 84% (see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 7).
Comparing Same Store results in the fourth quarter 2006 with the fourth quarter 2005, total revenue increased $13.0 million, or 5.3%. The increase in revenue was primarily generated by: higher average rent, up $39 per unit, or 4.9%, from $794 per unit to $833 per unit and increased utility reimbursements, up $2.4 million, partially offset by slightly lower occupancy, down 30 basis points from 94.6% to 94.3%. Same Store expenses of $102.4 million decreased $0.9 million, or 0.9%, compared with the prior year period and included lower turnover, payroll, utilities and insurance, partially offset by increased property taxes and administrative costs. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $154.7 million for the fourth quarter 2006, up 9.9% from the fourth quarter 2005.
Same Store Operating Results
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $3.0 million in the fourth quarter 2006 compared with the third quarter 2006, driven primarily by an $8 per unit increase in average rental rates. Expenses decreased $4.7
 
million, or 4.4%, primarily due to lower turnover and payroll expenses. Net operating income increased $7.8 million, or 5.3%, on a sequential basis.
Comparing the full year 2006 with 2005, Same Store revenue increased $62.2 million, or 6.8%, from $920.6 million to $982.8 million reflecting a 200 basis point increase in occupancy and a 3.7% increase in rental rates. Same Store expenses increased 3.1% from $394.2 million to $406.6 million primarily due to increased taxes, insurance, administrative costs and utilities, partially offset by lower turnover and payroll costs. Net operating income increased $49.9 million, or 9.5%, on a sequential year basis.
Core Properties
Core properties (defined in the Glossary) offer the potential for higher long-term growth. Core operations are focused in 27 markets located predominantly in coastal states as well as the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. In the fourth quarter 2006, core properties within the Same Store portfolio accounted for 58% of effective units, yet accounted for 72% of net operating income. The core Same Store properties had the following operating characteristics compared with non-core properties (defined in the Glossary): average rents of $996 per month versus $628 per month; average occupancy of 94.6% versus 94.0%; and an average operating margin of 63.5% versus 53.1%. The average rental rate growth for Same Store core versus non-core properties in the fourth quarter 2006 compared with the fourth quarter 2005 was 6.2% versus 3.0%, respectively. See Supplemental Schedule 7 for additional information on core and non-core property operations.
AIMCO CAPITAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS  Aimco is among the largest owners and operators of affordable properties in the United States. Aimco Capital has been organized to oversee Aimco's affordable property operations, asset management and transactional activities, and is led by a management team dedicated to this sector.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 336 properties with 38,934 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 51%, up from 48% at the end of the third quarter 2006. During the fourth quarter 2006, affordable property operations, including property management, generated net operating income of $23.3 million. On a year-over-year basis, fourth quarter average month-end occupancy for the owned and managed portfolio increased 40 basis points from 96.5% to 96.9%, and average rent per unit increased 5.4% from $682 to $719 per unit.
Portfolio Management and Redevelopment Activity
Acquisitions  Aimco acquired four properties in the fourth quarter 2006 for $83.7 million. Acquisitions included: Deerbrook at Baymeadows, which is contiguous to Villages at Baymeadows, located in Jacksonville, Florida and consists of 144 units that Aimco purchased for $15.5 million, or $107,639 per unit; Remington at Ponte Vedra Lakes, located in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, with 344 units purchased for $37.2 million, or $108,139 per unit; Auburn Glen, which is adjacent to another Aimco property in Jacksonville, Florida, with 251 units purchased for $15.9 million, or $63,347 per unit; and Horizons West, located approximately 15 minutes south of downtown San Francisco, with 78 units purchased for $15.1 million, or $193,340 per unit. These properties were built in the 1970s and 1980s, and present opportunities to add value by repositioning the assets through redevelopment in these growing sub-markets.
As announced on November 15, 2006, Aimco closed on a transaction structured to provide for the future acquisition of 84 residential properties and 42 commercial/retail stores located in the West Harlem district of New York City. Aimco made a $100.1 million loan to the current ownership group and operator for renovations and agreed to provide up to $9.0 million in additional funding for renovations. In conjunction with the loan agreement, Aimco entered into an agreement under which Aimco may purchase some or all of the buildings at any time during the next ten years, and the current ownership group may require Aimco to purchase the buildings upon achievement of certain revenue thresholds.
During the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco purchased additional limited partnership interests in 18 partnerships that own 51 properties for an aggregate of $4.4 million. During the year 2006, Aimco purchased additional limited partnership interests in 48 partnerships that own 103 properties for an aggregate of $7.1 million.
 
Dispositions  Non-core sales: Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria and are typically located in markets that Aimco seeks to exit. These properties are considered non-core, but Aimco will hold them over the intermediate term.
In the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco sold 31 (30 non-core and one core) conventional properties and three affordable properties with 8,297 and 654 units, respectively, for $574.3 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $366.2 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $239.2 million. Year-to-date Aimco has sold 63 non-core conventional properties, two core properties, 23 affordable properties and the South Tower at its Flamingo South Beach property for gross proceeds of $1.3 billion (Aimco share $927.2 million) and exited six markets. Since identifying non-core properties in January 2003, Aimco has sold 253 non-core conventional properties for $2.8 billion in gross proceeds and reduced the number of conventional markets from nearly 100 to 53, and Aimco Capital has sold 163 non-core affordable properties for gross proceeds of $766.7 million.
During the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco liquidated its university communities joint venture with CalSTRS through the sale of its interest in seven joint venture properties to CalSTRS and the purchase of CalSTRS's interest in one joint venture property. The sale of the joint venture properties to CalSTRS was based on an asset value of $190.0 million while Aimco purchased CalSTRS's interest in Chestnut Hall, a university community located on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania, based on an asset value of $27.3 million, or $86,800 per unit. Net proceeds to Aimco were $25.1 million.
See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition activity.
Gains on Dispositions  Aimco's property dispositions resulted in gross gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other and gains within discontinued operations), of $119.2 million for the fourth quarter 2006, compared with gains of $27.9 million for the fourth quarter 2005. For the year 2006, net gains totaled $294.8 million compared with 2005 at $121.9 million.
REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco is reinvesting in and upgrading its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the fourth quarter, Aimco had 45 active conventional projects and nine active affordable projects. Conventional redevelopment project expenditures totaled $69.6 million in the fourth quarter and $179.9 million for the year 2006, and activity is expected to increase in 2007. Affordable redevelopment project expenditures totaled $2.7 million in the fourth quarter and $53.7 for the year 2006, with these projects predominantly funded by proceeds from tax credit syndications. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITY  Aimco has additional development opportunities tied to successful property re-entitlement activity. In December, Aimco received final approval to increase density at two Denver properties. At Tamarac Village, Aimco received approval from the Denver City Council to nearly double the density from 564 to 1,100 units at this 29 acre property. At the Lodge, Aimco received final approval to increase density from 376 to up to approximately 750 units. Both of these properties are in close proximity to Denver's new light rail system, which opened in November 2006.
Additional Financial Information
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME  Income from property management is generated when Aimco provides property management services to properties with unaffiliated partners. The consolidation of an additional 149 properties in the first quarter 2006 in connection with the adoption of EITF 04-5 reduced the reported amounts of property management revenues. Income from consolidated properties is eliminated in Aimco's consolidated GAAP financial statements and the related economic benefit is reflected in minority interest.
ACTIVITY FEE AND ASSET MANAGEMENT INCOME  Activity fees are generated from transactions such as tax credit transactions, dispositions, refinancings and partnership promotes, and are earned primarily by Aimco Capital. Proceeds received in exchange for the transfer of tax credits are recognized ratably as the tax benefits are delivered, and syndication fees are recognized upon completion of the tax credit syndication. Asset management income is earned from the financial management of partnerships. Activity fee and asset management net operating income from both conventional and Aimco Capital operations was $13.8 million in the fourth quarter 2006 compared with $11.7 million in the fourth quarter 2005, or
 
$9.9 million and $8.4 million net of the effective tax rate, respectively. For the year 2006, activity fee and asset management income net of tax was approximately $28.2 million compared with the year 2005 at $19.2 million.
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income was $12.3 million for the fourth quarter 2006 compared with $9.1 million for the fourth quarter 2005. For the year 2006, interest income was $32.3 million compared with the year 2005 at $31.0 million. Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships and non-affiliates.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco closed 15 property loans generating total proceeds of $342.5 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.62%. This included refinancing $199.9 million in existing mortgage loans, reducing the average rate from 6.10% to 5.65%. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $135.0 million. During 2006, Aimco closed a total of 66 property loans generating gross proceeds of $1.2 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 5.66%. This included refinancing existing mortgage loans, reducing the average rate from 6.34% to 5.63%. Aimco's share of net proceeds from property loans was $589.4 million for the year 2006.
At quarter-end, Aimco's corporate debt balance was $540.0 million, down from $617.0 million at year-end 2005, and carried a weighted average interest rate of 6.86%. The balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility was $140.0 million, leaving $277.3 million (after $32.7 million in outstanding letters of credit) in available capacity. See Supplemental Schedule 5 for more detail on debt activity.
As of December 31, 2006, Aimco had $6.8 billion consolidated debt outstanding, excluding other borrowings, of which $5.1 billion was fixed rate mortgage debt and $1.7 billion was floating rate debt. The floating rate debt included $540.0 million corporate debt, $482.7 million floating rate property loans and $640.6 million of tax-exempt bonds. In addition, Aimco had $100.0 million in floating rate preferred stock. Aimco's floating rate exposure to changes in interest rates is mitigated by: tax-exempt bonds, which move at approximately 0.68% for a 1.00% change in interest rates; the offsetting effect of floating rate assets such as cash and notes receivable; and interest capitalized on redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances (see Supplemental Schedule 3), Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 1% change in LIBOR to be approximately $0.01 per share per quarter. Other borrowings of $67.7 million consist of miscellaneous borrowings including sale-leaseback arrangements and other notes payable.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $105.5 million for the fourth quarter 2006 compared with $88.9 million for the fourth quarter 2005. The $16.6 million increase in interest expense was due to an increase of $8.7 million related to interest on property loans that were consolidated in 2006 primarily as a result of adopting accounting requirement EITF 04-5, combined with a $7.9 million increase related to increased rates and balances on property debt, net of higher capitalized interest. For the year 2006, consolidated interest expense was $408.1, up $64.7 million from 2005. The increase was primarily a result of an increase of $35.4 million related to properties that were consolidated in 2006 under EITF 04-5, a $26.8 million increase related to increased rates and balances on property debt, net of higher capitalized interest, and additional interest of $1.8 million on corporate debt as a result of higher interest rates.
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  During the fourth quarter 2006, Aimco repurchased 0.4 million shares of its Class A Common stock at an average price of $55.33 per share for a total cost of $20.3 million, bringing full year 2006 common stock repurchases to 2.3 million shares at an average price of $52.24 per share for a total cost of $120.3 million.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter 2006 of $26.0 million were down $1.2 million compared with $27.2 million in the fourth quarter 2005. The year-over-year decrease in G&A of $1.2 million is due to reductions in consulting fees and payroll which were partially offset by an increase in variable compensation. For the year 2006, G&A expenses were $98.8 million compared to $92.8 million in 2005. The increase of $6.0 million is due to an increase in variable compensation, which was partially offset by numerous items including decreases in personnel costs and legal, audit and consulting fees. For the year 2006, Aimco achieved $8.3 million in G&A savings before variable compensation as compared to the year 2005.
 
Outlook
For the first quarter 2007, FFO is expected to be in a range from $0.71 to $0.75 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges.
For the full year 2007, the FFO outlook is in a range between $3.25 and $3.40 per share, before impairment and preferred redemption charges, and AFFO is expected to exceed $2.40 per share. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release, for more detail on first quarter and full year 2007 guidance.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on December 20, 2006, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.60 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, paid on January 31, 2007, to stockholders of record on December 31, 2006. The dividend represents 79% of AFFO (diluted) and 66% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 4.3% annualized yield based on the $56.02 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on December 29, 2006.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Fourth Quarter 2006 earnings conference call to be held Thursday, February 8, 2007, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast via Aimco's Website at then click on the Webcast link. Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 800-299-0433 with passcode 30824761, or dialing 617-801-9712 for international callers. Please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 30 days on Aimco's Website or by dialing 888-286-8010, 617-801-6888 for international callers, and using passcode 69021654.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/4Q2006
Supplemental Information
The Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available at Aimco's Website at the link or by calling Investor Relations at 303-691-4350.
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/4Q2006
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2007 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements
 
reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities through 19 regional operating centers. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, operates 1,256 properties, including approximately 216,400 apartment units, and serves approximately one million residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500.
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
[a] The Aimco Operating Partnership is AIMCO Properties, L.P., the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure
[b] Income from discontinued operations of consolidated properties is broken down as follows (in thousands):
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement First Quarter and Full Year 2007 (unaudited)
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2007 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
[1] Aimco's earnings per share guidance does not include estimates for (i) gains on dispositions or impairment losses due to the unpredictable timing of transactions or (ii) gains or losses on early repayment of debt.
[2] FFO per share represents FFO before impairments.
[3] Outlook for AFFO is provided on an annual basis.
[4] Aimco anticipates gross sales proceeds of $400 to $600 million for 2007 ($340 to $510 million related to conventional properties and $60 to $90 million related to affordable properties). Aimco share of proceeds is expected to be $300 to $450 million ($270 to $405 million related to conventional properties and $30 to $45 million related to affordable properties). Aimco estimates that its share of cash from these dispositions, net of mortgage debt and third-party equity interests, will be $150 to $200 million ($135 to $175 million related to conventional properties and $15 to $25 million related to affordable properties). The potential sales of the North and Central towers of the Flamingo South Beach property are not included in the dispositions total.
[5] Gross acquisitions include property acquisitions, limited partnership acquisitions and repurchase of Aimco stock.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
[a] Represents Aimco's numerator for basic earnings per common share calculated in accordance with GAAP.
[b] Includes amortization of management contracts where Aimco is the general partner. Such management contracts were established in certain instances where Aimco acquired a general partner interest in either a consolidated or an unconsolidated partnership. Because the recoverability of these management contracts depends primarily on the operations of the real estate owned by the limited partnerships, Aimco believes it is consistent with NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper to add back such amortization, as the White Paper directs the add back of amortization of assets uniquely significant to the real estate industry.
[c] "Minority partners' interest" means minority interest in our consolidated real estate partnerships.
[d] In accordance with GAAP, deficit distributions to minority partners are charges recognized in Aimco's income statement when cash is distributed to a non-controlling partner in a consolidated real estate partnership in excess of the positive balance in such partner's capital account, which is classified as minority interest on the balance sheet. Aimco records these charges for GAAP purposes even though there is no economic effect or cost. Deficit distributions to minority partners occur when the fair value of the underlying real estate exceeds its depreciated net book value because the underlying real estate has appreciated or maintained its value. As a result, the recognition of expense for deficit distributions to minority partners represents, in substance, either (1) recognition of depreciation previously allocated to the non-controlling partner or (2) a payment related to the non-controlling partner's share of real estate appreciation. Based on White Paper guidance that requires real estate depreciation and gains to be excluded from FFO, Aimco adds back deficit distributions and subtracts related recoveries in its reconciliation of net income to FFO.
[e] On October 1, 2003, NAREIT clarified its definition of FFO to include impairment losses, which previously had been added back to calculate FFO. Although Aimco's presentation conforms with the NAREIT definition, Aimco considers such approach to be inconsistent with the treatment of gains on dispositions of real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco no longer adds back impairment losses when computing FFO in accordance with this clarification. As a result, FFO for the three months and year ended December 31, 2006 includes $0.3 million and $1.2 million of net impairment recoveries, respectively. FFO for the three months and year ended December 31, 2005 includes $0.1 million of net impairment recoveries and $10.0 million of net impairment losses, respectively.
[f] In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's July 31, 2003 interpretation of the Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-42, Aimco includes redemption related preferred stock issuance costs in FFO. As a result, FFO for the three months and year ended December 31, 2006 includes issuance costs of zero and $6.8 million, respectively. FFO for the three months and year ended December 31, 2005 includes issuance costs of zero and $1.1 million, respectively.
[g] Represents Aimco's denominator for earnings per common share  diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP plus additional common share equivalents that are dilutive for FFO/AFFO.
[h] Represents prior year depreciation of certain tax credit redevelopment properties that Aimco included in an adjustment to minority interest in real estate partnerships for the three months ended September 30, 2006. This prior year depreciation is added back to determine FFO in accordance with the NAREIT White Paper. See Special Supplement to Aimco's Third Quarter 2006 Earnings Release for additional information.
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
(See footnotes on page 3 of 3)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
(See footnotes on page 3 of 3)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(a)
Notes to Schedule 2(a):
[1] See definitions and descriptions in Glossary.
[2] Same store amounts in this schedule may differ from the same store amounts in Schedules 6a-6b. Any such differences are the result of (a) certain variations in the treatment of intercompany eliminations in GAAP versus non-GAAP measures and (b) the effect of changing ownership percentages over time due to Aimco's acquisition of additional partnership interests.
[3] Includes unconsolidated properties that were sold during the period. Consolidated properties that have sold or have been classified as held for sale are included within income from discontinued operations.
[4] Property management revenues reported in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect fees charged to unconsolidated properties. Property management revenues reported in the proportionate income statement reflect the third party share of fees charged to both consolidated and unconsolidated properties.
[5] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of unconsolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect Aimco's share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
[6] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of consolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect minority partners' share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
(See footnotes on page 3 of 3)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
(See footnotes on page 3 of 3)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2(b)
Notes to Schedule 2(b):
[1] See definitions and descriptions in Glossary.
[2] Same store amounts in this schedule may differ from the same store amounts in Schedule 6c. Any such differences are the result of (a) certain variations in the treatment of intercompany eliminations in GAAP versus non-GAAP measures and (b) the effect of changing ownership percentages over time due to Aimco's acquisition of additional partnership interests.
[3] Includes unconsolidated properties that were sold during the period. Consolidated properties that have sold or have been classified as held for sale are included within income from discontinued operations.
[4] Property management revenues reported in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect fees charged to unconsolidated properties. Property management revenues reported in the proportionate income statement reflect the third party share of fees charged to both consolidated and unconsolidated properties.
[5] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of unconsolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect Aimco's share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
[6] Property management expenses reported on this line in Aimco's GAAP income statement reflect expenses related to the management of unconsolidated properties. Property management expenses reported on this line in the proportionate income statement reflect minority partners' share of both consolidated and unconsolidated property management expenses.
[7] Minority interest in real estate partnerships as reported in Aimco's GAAP income statement includes $10,598,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and, as discussed in the Special Supplement to Aimco's Third Quarter Earnings Release, a $9,030,000 adjustment related to the period April 1, 2004 through December 31, 2005. The adjustment is not allocated to individual components of revenues and expenses to ensure that the other amounts in the proportionate income statement consist only of activity for the year ended December 31, 2006.
[8] The effects of prior period ownership adjustments (see Special Supplement to Aimco's third Quarter Earnings Release) on real estate operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense are presented separately in the reconciliations of net income to FFO, AFFO and FCF, and in the breakdown of FCF.
 
Supplemental Schedule 3 Business Component Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of December 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 Share Data As of December 31, 2006 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
I. Debt Balances and Data
[1] Total debt does not include other borrowings of $67,660.
II. Debt Maturities
 
III. Loan Closings
[1] Aimco net proceeds is after transaction costs and any release of escrow funds.
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Sales Fourth Quarter 2006 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Sales Fourth Quarter 2006 Compared to Third Quarter 2006 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Same Store Sales Year Ended 2006 Compared to Year Ended 2005 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Selected Portfolio Performance Data
(unaudited)
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY
SAME STORE PERFORMANCE
TOTAL CONVENTIONAL PORTFOLIO: SUMMARY BY MARKET
SELECTED MARKETS
       * Source: Claritas, based on 2005 data
     ** Source: REIS, based on Q1 2006 forecasted data
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited) FOURTH QUARTER 2006 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
FULL YEAR 2006 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
FOURTH QUARTER 2006 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
FULL YEAR 2006 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions)
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures Year Ended December 31, 2006 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the year ended December 31, 2006. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 143,054 average units, including 123,447 conventional and 19,607 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity Year Ended December 31, 2006 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Apartment Unit Summary As of December 31, 2006 (unaudited)
 
Glossary
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Properties that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco operating partnership's share (AIMCO Properties, L.P.). Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. This category combines certain of Aimco's prior capital expenditure categories. This new classification, along with Capital Replacements, is intended to be simpler to apply, allow more discrete differentiation between categories, facilitate sound economic decisions, and assist investors and analysts in better understanding capital spending. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of Capital expenditures in the GAAP Statement of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
CORE PROPERTIES: Conventional properties located in selected markets that Aimco intends to hold and improve over the long-term.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FREE CASH FLOW (FCF): FCF measures profitability of operations and is prior to the cost of capital. FCF is comprised of AFFO (defined above), with adjustments to add back interest expense, minority interest in Aimco Operating Partnership, and preferred dividends. Because Aimco has unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Because Aimco has substantial unconsolidated real estate interests, it is useful for management and investors to understand, in addition to consolidated cash flows, cash flows related to Aimco's unconsolidated real estate holdings. Please see Supplemental Schedule 2 for FCF data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Glossary (continued)
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting redemption related preferred stock issuance costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
NON-CORE PROPERTIES: Properties located in markets that are not considered selected markets or in less favored locations within selected markets, which Aimco intends to hold for the intermediate term.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Conventional properties that have significant rent control restrictions, University Housing properties that have been owned for more than one year and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


