FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20081031110242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated October 31, 2008, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its third quarter 2008 earnings conference call on October 31, 2008, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing or for international callers, and indicating you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Third Quarter 2008 earnings conference call. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
800-860-2442,
412-858-4600
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for seven days on Aimco's website or by dialing for international callers) and using passcode 423670. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at and click on Quarterly Earnings Releases under the Investor Information menu. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
877-344-7529
(412-317-0088
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation
ITEM 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 31, 2008
APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY
/s/ Thomas M. Herzog
Thomas M. Herzog Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Denver, Colorado October 31, 2008
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Third Quarter 2008 Results
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS: Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) today announced results for the third quarter 2008. In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), all previously reported share and per share data have been adjusted to take into account the special dividends paid on January 30, 2008 and August 29, 2008, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 4.6 million and 5.7 million additional shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock, respectively.
Diluted Per Share Results
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "We had a solid third quarter. Property operations produced conventional same-store net operating income growth of 4.3% when compared to the third quarter 2007. Conventional redevelopment leased approximately 1,700 units at substantial increases to rents in place prior to redevelopment. Our redevelopment inventory is down, which will reduce future drag' from units held vacant. Our transactions teams successfully executed approximately $816 million in property sales during the quarter generating $348 million in net proceeds to Aimco to reduce leverage and fund investments, including redevelopment and share repurchases. We enjoy substantial liquidity and our occupancies are at 95%. Looking forward, we recognize that the environment has become more challenging. Accordingly, we are focused on serving and retaining customers; controlling costs and capital spending; building cash and reducing leverage; and recycling capital to our target markets."
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds:  "Our liquidity remains sound and we continue to maintain a safe balance sheet. Our full year FFO guidance is $3.06 to $3.16 per share, which represents guidance provided in our second quarter earnings release with adjustments for the $0.21 per share impact of the August 29th special dividend and $0.06 per share effect of casualty losses associated with Hurricane Ike and Tropical Storm Fay. When taking into consideration these two adjustments, our full year FFO guidance is unchanged."
Property Operations
Conventional Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the nation's largest owners and operators of market rate apartment communities. Conventional real estate operations consist of Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the third quarter 2008, this portfolio included 358 properties with 105,280 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 90%. During the third quarter 2008, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $147.2 million.
"Same Store" Results
In the third quarter 2008, the Same Store portfolio included 255 communities with 71,319 Effective Units (see the Glossary) based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 91% (See Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c).
Comparing Same Store results in the third quarter 2008 with the third quarter 2007, total revenue increased $4.7 million, or 2.3%. The increase in revenue was primarily generated by higher average rent, up $13 per unit, or 1.4%, from $924 per unit to $937 per unit, and higher occupancy, which was up 40 basis points from 94.7% to 95.1%. Same Store expenses of $82.3 million decreased $0.5 million, or 0.6%, compared with the prior year, primarily due to decreases in several areas including personnel and related expenses, marketing and contract services. These decreases were partially offset by increases in utilities, repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $124.7 million for the third quarter 2008, up 4.3% from the third quarter 2007.
Same Store Operating Results
 
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue increased $1.5 million, or 0.7%, in the third quarter 2008 compared with the second quarter 2008, driven by a $3 per unit increase in average rental rates and an increase in occupancy of 30 basis points. Expenses increased $1.8 million, or 2.2%, primarily due to higher turnover costs, personnel expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, partially offset by lower utilities and contract services. Net operating income decreased $0.3 million, or 0.2%, on a sequential basis.
Affordable Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the nation's largest owners and operators of affordable apartment communities. At the end of the third quarter 2008, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 305 properties with 35,805 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 51%. During the third quarter 2008, affordable property operations generated net operating income of $21.1 million. Average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio increased 30 basis points from 97.4% for the third quarter 2007 to 97.7 % for the third quarter 2008, while average rent per unit increased 3.5% from $744 to $770 per unit.
Investment Management
Investment management includes portfolio strategy, capital allocation, joint ventures, tax credit syndication, acquisitions, dispositions and other transaction activities. Within our owned portfolio, we refer to these activities as Portfolio Management, and their benefit is seen in property operating results and in investment gains. For affiliated partnerships, we refer to these activities as Asset Management for which we are separately compensated through fees paid by third party investors.
Investment management income includes the fees earned for providing asset management services to third party investors, syndication fees and deferred income related to tax credit activities, and portfolio management income earned through investment gains on our owned assets. Consolidated investment management income, net of tax, was $29.9 million in the third quarter 2008 compared to $15.7 million in the third quarter 2007. See Supplemental Schedule 11 for additional information on investment management income.
Portfolio Management
Portfolio management includes the ongoing allocation of investment capital to meet our geographic and product type goals. Our geographic allocation strategy focuses on the largest 20 U.S. markets as measured by total market capitalization. We believe these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. They are primarily coastal markets, and also include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. We may also invest in other markets on an opportunistic basis. As we implement this strategy, we expect to reduce our investment in markets outside the largest 20 markets and to increase our investment in the largest 20 markets both by making acquisitions and through redevelopment spending.
See Supplemental Schedules 6 and 7 for additional details regarding Aimco's portfolio allocation.
ACQUISITIONS  During the third quarter 2008, Aimco had no significant acquisition activity.
DISPOSITIONS  Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria. In the third quarter 2008, Aimco sold 40 conventional properties and five affordable properties with 9,493 and 1,196 units, respectively, for $815.9 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $653.5 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $347.9 million. Aimco exited three markets during the third quarter: Hartford, CT, Las Vegas, NV and Tucson, AZ.
Aimco's property dispositions resulted in gains on dispositions of real estate (including gains on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other and gains within discontinued operations) of $228.7 million for the third quarter 2008, compared with gains of $23.2 million for the third quarter 2007.
See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition and disposition activity.
 
Redevelopment
Aimco actively reinvests in and upgrades its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the third quarter 2008, Aimco had 43 active conventional redevelopment projects and 18 active tax credit redevelopment projects in process. Aimco's share of total redevelopment expenditures was $90.2 million during the third quarter 2008. Conventional redevelopment project expenditures totaled $54.2 million and tax credit redevelopment project expenditures totaled $36.0 million for the quarter. Further information on redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10.
Additional Financial Information
INTEREST INCOME  Consolidated interest income was $5.3 million for the third quarter 2008 compared with $10.8 million for the third quarter 2007. Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as on notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships and non-affiliates. The decrease in interest income of $5.5 million is primarily the result of lower interest rates.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the nine months ended September 30, 2008, Aimco closed loans on 53 properties generating gross proceeds of $509.1 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.45%. This included refinancing $190.9 million in existing mortgage loans. After repayment of existing property debt, transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $279.4 million.
As of September 30, 2008, Aimco had $6.9 billion of consolidated debt outstanding, which consisted of: $5.3 billion of fixed rate mortgage debt; $1.5 billion of floating rate property and corporate debt; and $81.5 million of other borrowings. In addition, Aimco had $73.0 million of floating rate preferred stock outstanding. The fixed and floating rate property debt is primarily non-recourse. Aimco's FFO exposure to changes in floating interest rates is mitigated by $609.0 million of tax-exempt bonds with rates tied to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA) (previously named the Bond Market Association Index), which has historically moved at approximately 0.69% for a 1.00% change in LIBOR, although a dislocation in this relationship occurred in the latter part of the third quarter. Aimco's exposure is further offset by floating rate assets, such as cash and notes receivable, and interest capitalized on entitlement and redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances (see Supplemental Schedule 3), Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 100 basis point change in LIBOR to be approximately $0.015 per share per quarter.
See Supplemental Schedule 5 for more detail on debt characteristics and activity.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $94.6 million for the third quarter 2008 compared with $92.7 million for the third quarter 2007. The $1.9 million increase in interest expense is the result of higher balances on property debt, partially offset by lower weighted average interest rates.
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  During the third quarter 2008, Aimco repurchased approximately 2.9 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at an average price of $34.45 per share for a total cost of $100.0 million.
During the month of October 2008, Aimco repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at an average price of $24.77 per share for a total cost of $50.0 million. Since Aimco began repurchasing shares during the third quarter 2006, the company has repurchased approximately 23.7 million shares, or approximately 24% of shares outstanding on June 30, 2006, at an average price of $38.84 per share for a total cost of $919.6 million.
Although for financial statement purposes GAAP requires that historical share repurchases be restated to reflect shares issued in connection with the special dividends paid on January 30, 2008 and August 29, 2008, the number of shares repurchased as described above has not been adjusted.
We are currently authorized to repurchase approximately 19.3 million additional shares. Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
 
Also during the third quarter 2008, Aimco repurchased 54 shares, or $27.0 million in liquidation preference, of our Series A Community Reinvestment Act Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share, for cash totaling $24.8 million. The $2.2 million excess of the carrying value over the redemption price, offset by $0.7 million of issuance costs, represents a net preferred stock redemption gain. Consistent with the treatment of preferred stock redemption costs, these amounts are reflected as an adjustment to NAREIT FFO. See Supplemental Schedule 1 for more detail on the components of FFO and AFFO.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the third quarter 2008 of $27.3 million increased $6.7 million when compared with the third quarter 2007 primarily due to personnel and related costs and timing of certain expenditures.
Outlook
For the fourth quarter 2008, FFO, before impairment losses and preferred redemption charges, is expected to be in a range from $0.71 to $0.81 per share and we are adjusting our full year FFO guidance from a range of $3.33 to $3.43 per share to a range of $3.06 to $3.16 per share to take into consideration additional shares issued in connection with the August 29, 2008 special dividend and casualty losses associated with Hurricane Ike and Tropical Storm Fay. Please refer to the Outlook Schedule, which follows the Consolidated Financial Statements in this release, for more detail on fourth quarter and full year 2008 guidance.
Dividends on Common Stock
As announced on October 16, 2008, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $1.80 per share of Class A Common Stock, to be paid on December 1, 2008, to stockholders of record on October 27, 2008. A portion of the special dividend in the amount of $0.60 per share represents payment of the regular dividend for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and a portion represents an additional dividend payment in the amount of $1.20 per share associated with taxable gains arising from property dispositions in 2008.
The special dividend will be payable in a combination of cash and additional shares of Class A Common Stock. The aggregate amount of cash payable to stockholders in the special dividend, other than cash payable in lieu of fractional shares, will not exceed $53.2 million. Subject to this limitation on the aggregate amount of cash payable, stockholders may elect to receive payment of the special dividend in cash or in shares, except that cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares. Stockholders who do not make an election will receive $0.60 per share in cash. Stockholders who elect to receive the special dividend in all cash will receive payment in the form of at least $0.60 per share in cash.
A prospectus and election form was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2008 and mailed to stockholders of record as of October 27, 2008. The prospectus describes in detail the terms of the special dividend, including the ability of stockholders to elect to receive the special dividend in the form of cash or shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock, and a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be included in the special dividend. The cash or stock election must be exercised prior to 5:00 p.m. (EDT) on November 19, 2008.
Aimco expects the special dividend to be a taxable dividend to its stockholders, without regard to whether a particular stockholder receives the dividend in the form of cash or shares. It therefore allows Aimco to satisfy its REIT distribution requirement while preserving cash for other corporate purposes, including debt reduction and share repurchases.
Share and per share amounts disclosed in the accompanying earnings release and supplemental schedules have not been retroactively adjusted for the effect of shares to be issued pursuant to this special dividend, as the number of shares is not presently determinable. Such retroactive adjustments will be reflected in earnings releases and financial information prepared subsequent to the payment date.
Cash dividends declared on Class A Common Stock attributable to the nine months ended September 30, 2008, totaled $1.80 per share, or 98% of AFFO (undiluted) and 69% of FFO (diluted), on a per share basis, and a 6.9% cash yield based on the $35.02 closing price of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on September 30, 2008. Cash dividends attributable to the nine months ended September 30, 2008, include that portion of the October 2008 special dividend that represents payment of the regular dividend for the third quarter 2008.
 
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Third Quarter 2008 earnings conference call to be held Friday, October 31, 2008, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 800.860.2442, or 412.858.4600 for international callers, and indicating that you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Third Quarter 2008 earnings conference call. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the conference call replay for seven days by dialing 877.344.7529, or 412.317.0088 for international callers, passcode 423670, or you may access the audiocast replay by clicking on the Webcasts link on Aimco's website at .
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx
Supplemental Information
The full text of this release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available on Aimco's Website at the link .
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/QEarnRelease.aspx
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of fourth quarter and full year 2008 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale.
 
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is one of the largest owners and operators of apartment communities in the United States with 1,067 properties, including 178,083 apartment units, and serves approximately 750,000 residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com
Contact Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations 303.691.4327
Investor@Aimco.com
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 (unaudited)
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of fourth quarter and full year 2008 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate transactional income as anticipated.
Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors that are beyond the control of Aimco including, without limitation: natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; national and local economic conditions; the general level of interest rates; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; financing risks, including the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in local markets and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.
Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
Special Supplement to Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Release
December 2007 and July 2008 Special Dividends
In December 2007, Aimco declared a special dividend, which was paid on January 30, 2008, in a combination of cash and stock. In July 2008, Aimco declared a second special dividend, which was paid on August 29, 2009, in a combination of cash and stock. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that all reported per share data, for current and prior periods, be adjusted to reflect the issuance of the shares in connection with these special dividends as if such shares had been issued at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The following table provides Aimco's results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, as reported in 2007, prior to the special dividends, and as currently reported, after the effect of the special dividends:
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
(See footnotes on page 2 of 2)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Notes to Schedule 2:
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of September 30, 2008 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data
(in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
Common Stock and Equivalents
Notes:
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
Corporate Debt:
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (continued)
III. Loan Closings
YEAR-TO-DATE LOAN CLOSINGS
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a) Same Store Operating Results Third Quarter 2008 Compared to Third Quarter 2007 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Same Store Operating Results Third Quarter 2008 Compared to Second Quarter 2008 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c) Same Store Operating Results Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2007 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7 Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Acquisition and Sales Activity
(unaudited)
THIRD QUARTER 2008 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2008 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent)
THIRD QUARTER 2008 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent) [1]
YEAR-TO-DATE 2008 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent) [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties, redevelopment or entitlement. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties, redevelopment and entitlement for the nine months ended September 30, 2008. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 128,508 average units, including 111,623 conventional and 16,885 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Aimco Capital (in thousands, unaudited)
Investment Management Income
Summary of Projected Tax Credit Income
 
Supplemental Schedule 12
Apartment Unit Summary As of September 30, 2008 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Properties that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for preferred stock redemption related costs and impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco Operating Partnership's share. Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. CI expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statements of Cash Flows.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO and FCF. Please refer to Supplemental Schedule 9 for further detail. CR expenditures are a component of capital expenditures in the GAAP Statements of Cash Flows.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting preferred stock redemption related redemption related costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/ distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET: Other expenses (income), net includes tax provision/benefit, franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal.)
OTHER PROPERTIES: Conventional properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties that have been owned for more than one year and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


