FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20081204201625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. Other Events.
On December 1, 2008, Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") paid a special dividend to Aimco's stockholders of record at the close of business on October 27, 2008. The special dividend was paid in a combination of cash and Aimco Class A Common Stock.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that all reported per share data, for current and prior periods, be adjusted to reflect the issuance of the shares in connection with the special dividend as if such shares had been issued at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Aimco has furnished the material on Exhibit 99.1 to facilitate an understanding of the effect of shares issued in connection with the special dividend declared on October 16, 2008, and paid on December 1, 2008, on previously reported Earnings per share, Funds from Operations per share and Adjusted Funds from Operations per share.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
Exhibit Number     Description
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 4, 2008
Apartment Investment and Management Company
Thomas M. Herzog Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Thomas M. Herzog                            
 

Exhibit 99.1
Apartment Investment and Management Company Financial and Share Information Adjusted for Special Dividends  December 2008
In December 2007, July 2008, and October 2008, Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") declared special dividends, which were paid in a combination of cash and stock. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that all reported per share data, for current and prior periods, be adjusted to reflect the issuance of the shares in connection with these special dividends as if such shares had been issued at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The purpose of this document is to provide additional information to users of Aimco's financial information to facilitate an understanding of the effect of shares issued in connection with the special dividends on previously reported Earnings per share, Funds from Operations per share and Adjusted Funds from Operations per share. The analyses that follow this summary represent the detailed computations of the adjustments to these metrics resulting from the retroactive adjustments to reported weighted average shares and share equivalents as required by GAAP on a quarterly and annual basis for the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and the first three quarters of 2008.
Aimco is not providing updated guidance; however, users of Aimco's financial information should be aware that guidance provided during Aimco's third quarter earnings conference call did not contemplate the number of shares to be issued in connection with the special dividend declared in October 2008, as the number of shares to be issued was not determinable at that time.
The number of shares issued and the percentage increase in shares outstanding on the record dates as a result of the special dividends were as follows:
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company Financial Results (per share) (unaudited)
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company Financial Results (per share) (unaudited)
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company Calculation of Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company Calculation of Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands) (unaudited)


