FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20081201073835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 25, 2008, Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") issued a press release relating to the special dividend to be paid on December 1, 2008, to Aimcos stockholders of record at the close of business on October 27, 2008. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. Also on December 1, 2008, Aimco filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission an updated prospectus supplement relating to shares of Class A Common Stock to be issued in payment of the special dividend, which prospectus supplement supersedes the prospectus supplement previously filed on October 28, 2008 (dated October 27, 2008). In connection therewith, Aimco has filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this report, the opinion of DLA Piper LLP (US) as to the legality of the securities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) The following exhibits are filed with this report: Exhibit Number and Description 5.1 Opinion of DLA Piper LLP (US), as to legality of securities 23.1 Consent of DLA Piper LLP (US) (included in Exhibit 5.1) 99.1 Aimco Press Release dated November 25, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The Marbury Building 6225 Smith Avenue Baltimore, Maryland 21209-3600 410.580.3000 410.580.3001 www.dlapiper.com
DLA Piper LLP (US)
T
F
W
December 1, 2008
4582 S. Ulster Street Parkway, Suite 1100 Denver, CO 80237
Apartment Investment and Management Company
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We serve as special Maryland counsel to Apartment Investment and Management Company, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance by the Company of up to 12,600,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, (the "Shares"), par value $.01 per share (the "Class A Common Stock"), to be issued in connection with a special dividend (the "Special Dividend") declared by the Board of Directors of the Company to holders of record of the Class A Common Stock as of the close of business on October 27, 2008 and expected to be paid on December 1, 2008 substantially on the terms and in the manner described in the Prospectus Supplement dated as of October 27, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplement") as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on December 1, 2008. The issuance of the Shares is being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), on a Registration Statement of the Company on Form S-3 (No. 333-150341-01) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Commission on April 21, 2008 which provides for the offering by the Company from time to time of certain securities described in the Registration Statement, including the Shares. This opinion is being provided at your request in connection with the filing of the Prospectus Supplement.
In rendering the opinion expressed herein, we have reviewed originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents:
(a) The Registration Statement.
(b) The Prospectus Supplement in the form to be filed with the Commission.
(c) The charter of the Company (the "Charter"), certified by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland (the "SDAT").
(d) The Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated and in effect on the date hereof, certified by an officer of the Company.
(e) Certified resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the authorization and issuance of the Shares.
(f) An Officer's Certificate of the Company (the "Certificate"), dated the date hereof, as to certain factual matters.
(g) A short-form Good Standing Certificate for the Company, dated a recent date, issued by the SDAT.
(h) Such other documents as we have deemed necessary to the rendering of the opinions expressed below.
In our examination of the aforesaid documents, we have assumed, without independent investigation, the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individuals who have executed any of the aforesaid documents, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity with originals of all documents submitted to us as copies (and the authenticity of the originals of such copies), and the accuracy and completeness of all public records reviewed by us. In making our examination of documents executed by parties other than the Company, we have assumed that such parties had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder, and we have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and the valid execution and delivery by such parties of such documents and the validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof with respect to such parties. As to any facts material to this opinion which we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied solely upon the Certificate.
Based upon the foregoing, subject to the additional assumptions, qualifications, and limitations below, having regard for such legal considerations as we deem relevant, and limited in all respects to applicable Maryland law, we are of the opinion and advise you that the Shares have been duly authorized and, upon issuance of the Shares pursuant to the Special Dividend, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
In addition to the qualifications set forth above, the opinion set forth herein is subject to additional assumptions, qualifications, and limitations as follows:
(a) This opinion concerns only the effect of the laws (exclusive of the principles of conflict of laws) of the State of Maryland as currently in effect. We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion if any applicable laws change after the date hereof or if any facts or circumstances come to our attention after the date hereof that might change this opinion.
(b) We have made no investigation of, and we express no opinion as to, the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of Maryland. To the extent that any documents referred to herein are governed by the laws of a jurisdiction other than the State of Maryland, we have assumed that the laws of such jurisdiction are the same as the laws of the State of Maryland.
(c) We express no opinion as to compliance with the securities (or "blue sky") laws or the real estate syndication laws of the State of Maryland.
(d) We assume that the issuance of the Shares will not cause (A) the Company to issue shares of Class A Common Stock in excess of the number of shares of such class authorized by the Charter and the Board of Directors of the Company at the time of issuance of the Shares and (B) any person to violate any of the Initial Holder Limit, the Look-Through Ownership Limit, or the Ownership Limit provisions of the Charter.
(e) This opinion is limited to the matters set forth herein, and no other opinion should be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed with the Commission on or about December 1, 2008, which will be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, and to the reference to our firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement related to the Shares. In giving our consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Very truly yours,
DLA PIPER LLP (US)
/s/ DLA PIPER LLP (US)

Investor Relations (303) 691-4350 Investor@aimco.com Elizabeth Coalson Vice President Investor Relations (303) 691-4327
DENVER, COLORADO, November 25, 2008
Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE: AIV) announced today the results of the stockholders' elections relating to Aimco's third quarter 2008 special dividend declared by its Board of Directors on October 18, 2008. The special dividend of $1.80 per share of Class A Common Stock is payable on December 1, 2008, to stockholders of record on October 27, 2008. Aimco's Class A Common Stock began trading "ex-dividend" for the special dividend on October 22, 2008.
A portion of the special dividend in the amount of $0.60 per share represents payment of the regular dividend for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and a portion represents an additional dividend payment in the amount of $1.20 per share associated with taxable gains arising from property dispositions in 2008.
Aimco expects the special dividend to be a taxable dividend to its stockholders, without regard to whether a particular stockholder receives the dividend in the form of cash or shares. It therefore allows Aimco to satisfy its REIT distribution requirement while preserving cash for other corporate purposes.
The terms of the special dividend, including the ability of shareholders to elect to receive the special distribution in the form of cash or shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock, and a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be included in the special dividend, were described in detail in the prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2008. The cash or stock elections were required to be submitted prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on November 19, 2008.
Based on stockholder elections, the special dividend will consist of approximately $53.2 million in cash and approximately 12.6 million shares of its Class A Common Stock. The number of shares included in the special distribution is calculated based on the $8.46 average closing price per share of Aimco's Class A Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on November 20 and 21, 2008. Summarized results of the special dividend elections are as follows:
If your shares are held through a bank, broker or nominee, and you have questions regarding the special dividend, please contact such bank, broker or nominee. If you are a registered stockholder and you have questions regarding the special dividend, you may call Aimco's transfer agent, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., at (781) 575-2879 or (800) 733-5001.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that all reported per share data, for current and prior periods, be adjusted to reflect the issuance of the shares in connection with these special dividends as if such shares had been issued at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The issuance of shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock pursuant to this special dividend resulted in an effective increase of 14.18% in shares outstanding on the record date of October 27, 2008. Share and per share information prior to the special dividend will be adjusted in subsequent financial information to reflect this effective increase in shares.
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is one of the largest owners and operators of apartment communities in the United States with 1,067 properties, including 178,083 apartment units, and serves approximately 750,000 residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com


