FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20090206112102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco), dated February 6, 2009, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call on February 6, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimcos website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 800-860-2442, or 412-858-4600 for international callers, and indicating you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Fourth Quarter 2008 earnings conference call. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for seven days by dialing 877-344-7529 (412-317-0088 for international callers) and using passcode 426727 or you may access the audiocast replay by clicking the Webcasts link on Aimcos website at . Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimcos website at and click on Quarterly Earnings Releases under the Investor Information menu. The information contained on Aimcos website is not incorporated by reference herein.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 6, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 Results and 2009 Outlook
Denver, Colorado February 6, 2009
-
Apartment Investment and Management Company (Aimco) (NYSE:AIV) today announced results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008, and its outlook for 2009.
2008 Highlights
 
2009 Outlook
 
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "2008 was a year of contrasts. Even as Aimco executed its operating plans, including returning $686 million cash to common stockholders, the external environment worsened and has now turned quite grim. We are building financial dry powder by reducing our redevelopment spending and selling properties. We are paying down our corporate debt. We have reviewed the value of land held for development and taken appropriate impairments. Also, we have imposed a thoughtful and disciplined reduction in all costs not directly related to serving customers. We expect 2009 to be quite challenging and we are making every effort to be prepared to weather its storms."
Chief Financial Officer Tom Herzog adds: "Full year 2008 FFO before operating real estate impairment losses and non-recurring charges was at the mid-point of guidance of $2.36 per share, as adjusted for the December 2008 and January 2009 special dividends. As we look toward 2009, our liquidity remains sound and we continue to maintain a safe balance sheet. Our full year 2009 FFO guidance is $1.80 per share at the mid-point."
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 Financial Results
In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), all previously reported share and per share data have been adjusted to take into account the special dividends paid on August 29, 2008, December 1, 2008, and January 29, 2009, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 5.7 million, 12.6 million and 15.6 million additional shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock, respectively.
Adjusted Diluted Per Share Results
*
 
Property Operations
Conventional Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the nation's largest owners and operators of market rate apartment communities. Conventional real estate operations consist of Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of the fourth quarter 2008, this portfolio included 310 properties with 93,444 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 91%. Average rents for the conventional real estate portfolio increased from $931 per unit during the fourth quarter 2007 to $1,032 per unit during the fourth quarter 2008. During the fourth quarter 2008, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $149.4 million.
"Same Store" Results
In the fourth quarter 2008, the Same Store portfolio included 227 communities with 65,057 Effective Units (see the Glossary) based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 91% (See Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c).
Comparing Same Store results in the fourth quarter 2008 with the fourth quarter 2007, total revenue increased $1.9 million, or 1.0%. The increase in revenue was primarily generated by higher average rent, up $6 per unit, or 0.1%, from $963 per unit to $969 per unit, and higher occupancy, which was up 20 basis points from 94.5% to 94.7%. Same Store expenses of $72.9 million decreased $3.1 million, or 4.0%, compared with the prior year, due to decreases in several areas including repairs and maintenance, marketing, turnover expenses and contract services. These decreases were partially offset by increases in utilities. Same Store portfolio net operating income was $121.7 million for the fourth quarter 2008, up 4.2% from the fourth quarter 2007.
Same Store Operating Results
Comparing Same Store results on a sequential basis, total revenue decreased $0.7 million, or 0.4%, in the fourth quarter 2008 compared with the third quarter 2008, driven by a $3 per unit decrease in average rental rates and a decrease in occupancy of 40 basis points. Expenses decreased $3.5 million, or 4.5%, due to decreases in several areas including turnover expenses, repairs and maintenance, marketing, contract services, property taxes and insurance. These decreases were partially offset by increases in utilities. Net operating income increased $2.8 million, or 2.2%, on a sequential basis.
Comparing Same Store results on a full year basis, total revenue increased $15.5 million, or 2.1%, for the full year 2008 compared with the full year 2007, driven by a $16 per unit increase in average rental rates, an increase in occupancy of 30 basis points and higher utility reimbursements and ancillary income. Expenses decreased $0.3 million, or 0.1%, as savings in turnover expenses, repairs and maintenance and marketing were offset by increase in utilities, property taxes and insurance. Net operating income increased $15.8 million, or 3.5%, on a full year basis.
 
Affordable Real Estate Operations
Aimco is among the nation's largest owners and operators of affordable apartment communities. At the end of the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco's owned affordable portfolio included 289 properties with 33,888 units in which Aimco had an average ownership of 52%. During the fourth quarter and full year 2008, affordable property operations generated net operating income of $17.7 million and $76.0 million, respectively. Average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio increased 20 basis points from 97.2% for the fourth quarter 2007 to 97.4% for the fourth quarter 2008, while average rent per unit increased 3.0% from $722 to $744 per unit. Average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio increased 40 basis points from 97.2% for the full year 2007 to 97.6% for the full year 2008, while average rent per unit increased 3.2% from $712 to $735 per unit.
Investment Management
Investment management includes portfolio strategy, capital allocation, joint ventures, tax credit syndication, acquisitions, dispositions and other transaction activities. Within our owned portfolio, we refer to these activities as Portfolio Management, and their benefit is seen in property operating results and in investment gains. For affiliated partnerships, we refer to these activities as Asset Management for which we are separately compensated through fees paid by third party investors.
Investment management income includes the fees earned for providing asset management services to third party investors, syndication fees and deferred income related to tax credit activities, and portfolio management income earned through investment gains on our owned assets. Consolidated investment management income, net of tax, was $8.8 million in the fourth quarter 2008 compared to $29.5 million in the fourth quarter 2007. Full year 2008 investment management income, net of tax, was $77.2 million compared to $60.6 for the full year 2007. See Supplemental Schedule 11 for additional information on investment management income.
Portfolio Management
Portfolio management includes the ongoing allocation of investment capital to meet our geographic and product type goals. Our geographic allocation strategy focuses on the largest 20 U.S. markets as measured by total market capitalization. We believe these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. These target markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. We may also invest in other markets on an opportunistic basis. As we implement this strategy, we expect to reduce our investment in markets outside the largest 20 markets and to increase our investment in the largest 20 markets both by making acquisitions and through redevelopment spending.
See Supplemental Schedules 6 and 7 for additional details regarding Aimco's portfolio allocation.
ACQUISITIONS  During the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco acquired 2900 on First Apartments with 142 units, located in Seattle, Washington, for $36.5 million, or $257,042 per unit.
DISPOSITIONS  Aimco regularly reviews its portfolio to identify properties that do not meet its long-term investment criteria. In the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco sold 49 conventional properties and 16 affordable properties with 11,952 and 1,917 units, respectively, for $807.5 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $655.2 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $298.4 million. Aimco exited the Charleston, South Carolina and Columbus, Ohio markets during the fourth quarter. During the full year 2008, Aimco sold 130 conventional properties and 25 affordable properties with 34,523 and 3,568 units, respectively, for $2.6 billion in gross proceeds (Aimco share $2.1 billion). Aimco's share of net proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $1.0 billion. Aimco exited a total of six markets during 2008, increasing its asset allocation to its target markets from 80% at December 31, 2007 to 85% at December 31, 2008.
Aimco's real estate dispositions resulted in gains (including gains on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate and other and gains within discontinued operations) of $174.1 million for the fourth quarter 2008, compared with gains of $12.5 million for the fourth quarter 2007. Gains on dispositions of real estate totaled $717.8 million for the full year 2008, compared with gains of $77.8 million for the full year 2007.
See Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on acquisition and disposition activity.
 
Redevelopment
Aimco reinvests in and upgrades its portfolio through property redevelopments. At the end of the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco had 37 active conventional redevelopment projects and four active tax credit redevelopment projects. Aimco's share of total redevelopment expenditures was $84.6 million during the fourth quarter 2008. Conventional redevelopment project expenditures totaled $44.9 million and tax credit redevelopment project expenditures totaled $39.7 million for the quarter. For the full year 2008, Aimco's share of conventional redevelopment project expenditures totaled $222.8 million and tax credit redevelopment project expenditures totaled $112.9 million. Further information on active redevelopment projects is provided in Supplemental Schedule 10. As noted in Aimco's Outlook above, during 2009 Aimco expects to reduce its conventional redevelopment activities by approximately 75%, primarily focusing on the completion of projects active at the end of 2008. Additionally, Aimco expects to reduce its tax credit redevelopment project expenditures by approximately 73% in 2009.
Additional Financial Information
INTEREST INCOME  Interest income is earned in part from money market and interest bearing accounts as well as on notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships and non-affiliates. Consolidated interest income was $3.0 million for the fourth quarter 2008 compared with $10.7 million for the fourth quarter 2007. The decrease in interest income of $7.7 million is primarily the result of lower interest rates. Consolidated interest income of $17.1 million for the full year 2008 was $23.8 million less than the full year 2007 as a result of lower interest rates, the repayment of certain high yielding notes receivable from unconsolidated partnerships in the second quarter 2007 and lower accretion of discounted notes receivable in 2008.
DEBT ACTIVITY  During the year ended December 31, 2008, Aimco closed loans on 71 properties generating gross proceeds of $962.2 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.51%. This included refinancing $472.9 million in existing mortgage loans. After distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs, Aimco's share of net proceeds was $430.9 million.
During the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco prepaid in full $75.0 million of term debt that was due in September 2009. At the end of the fourth quarter 2008, the balance on Aimco's $635.0 million revolving credit facility was zero and available capacity was $578.8 million, net of $56.2 million of letters of credit drawn against the facility. Aimco's unsecured revolving credit facility of $635.0 million was reduced from $650.0 million due to the elimination of a $15.0 million commitment held by Lehman Commercial Paper Inc.
As of December 31, 2008, Aimco had outstanding $6.8 billion of consolidated debt, which consisted of: $5.4 billion of fixed rate property debt; $1.3 billion of floating rate property and corporate debt; and $96.0 million of other borrowings. In addition, Aimco had outstanding $73.0 million of floating rate preferred stock. The fixed and floating rate property debt is primarily non-recourse. Aimco's FFO exposure to changes in floating interest rates is mitigated by $563.4 million of tax-exempt bonds with rates tied to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA) (previously named the Bond Market Association Index), which has historically moved at approximately 0.69% for a 1.00% change in LIBOR. Aimco's exposure is further offset by floating rate assets, such as cash and notes receivable, and interest capitalized on entitlement and redevelopment properties. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances, Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 100 basis point change in LIBOR to be approximately $0.01 per share per quarter.
See Supplemental Schedule 5 for more detail on debt characteristics and activity.
INTEREST EXPENSE  Consolidated interest expense was $92.6 million for the fourth quarter 2008 compared with $94.0 million for the fourth quarter 2007. The $1.4 million decrease in interest expense is the result of lower balances on corporate debt and lower weighted average interest rates overall, partially offset by higher property debt balances and lower capitalized interest. Consolidated interest expense increased from $355.4 million for the full year 2007 to $368.7 million for the full year 2008 due to higher debt balances partially offset by lower interest rates.
 
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  During the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at an average price of $24.77 per share for a total cost of $50.0 million. This activity occurred in October 2008 and was previously disclosed in Aimco's third quarter 2008 earnings release. When retroactively adjusted for shares issued in connection with special dividends paid on December 1, 2008 and on January 29, 2009, Aimco effectively repurchased these shares at an equivalent average cost of $18.81 per share. Aimco is currently authorized to repurchase approximately 19.3 million additional shares. Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Since Aimco began repurchasing shares during the third quarter 2006, the company has repurchased approximately 23.7 million shares for a total cost of $919.6 million, or an average cost of $38.84 per share. When retroactively adjusted for shares issued in 2008 and 2009 in connection with the payment of special dividends, Aimco has effectively repurchased shares at an equivalent average cost of $27.19 per share.
Since the third quarter 2006, Aimco has repurchased approximately 24% of its Class A Common Stock outstanding on June 30, 2006.
During 2007 and 2008, Aimco sold 231 properties, generating significant net cash proceeds and taxable gains on sale. In order to provide a dividends-paid deduction sufficient to avoid taxation at the REIT level and to retain cash for deleveraging and accretive investment activities, including share repurchases, Aimco distributed 38.5 million shares in connection with special dividends declared from December 2007 through December 2008. As a result, each share of stock held prior to these special dividends is now equivalent to 1.48 shares of stock. Excluding the impact of taxes, the stock dividends are a non-economic event to Aimco's stockholders as their ownership interest in the company is unchanged. For additional discussion of the impact of stock dividends on stockholder value, see page 17 of this release.
G&A  General and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter 2008 of $23.4 million decreased $0.9 million when compared with the fourth quarter 2007 primarily due to reductions in overhead associated with our redevelopment program. Full year 2008 G&A expenses of $99.0 million were $8.3 million higher than full year 2007 primarily due to higher personnel and related expenses. As noted in the 2009 Outlook, Aimco expects that its fourth quarter 2008 restructuring will result in an FFO benefit for 2009 of approximately $33.0 million, of which approximately $15.0 million is related to reductions in G&A expenses. The balance of savings is related to reductions in property management expenses of approximately $13.0 million and investment management expenses of approximately $5.0 million.
Aimco has also reduced 2009 total target compensation for Terry Considine by approximately 33%, to a range of approximately $3.0 to $4.0 million (inclusive of his base salary of $600,000). Aimco also expects to reduce 2009 total target compensation for other executive officers by approximately 30% on average.
REAL ESTATE AND OTHER IMPAIRMENTS  During the fourth quarter 2008, Aimco determined that the total carrying amount of certain operating real estate assets was not recoverable in view of the current economy and recognized consolidated impairment losses of $4.5 million and $14.5 million related to assets held for use and assets sold or held for sale, respectively.
In connection with the preparation of its annual financial statements, Aimco assessed the recoverability of its investment in its Lincoln Place property, located in Venice, California. Based upon the decline in land values in Southern California and the expected timing of the company's redevelopment efforts, Aimco determined that the total carrying amount of the property was no longer probable of recovery and, accordingly, during the fourth quarter recognized an impairment loss of $85.4 million, or $55.6 million, net of tax.
Similarly, Aimco assessed the recoverability of its investment in Treetops, a vacant property located in San Bruno, California, and determined that the carrying value for the property exceeds its estimated fair value. Accordingly, Aimco recognized an impairment loss of $5.7 million for this property during the fourth quarter 2008.
As part of the March 2002 acquisition of Casden Properties, Inc., Aimco acquired a 20% passive interest in Casden Properties LLC, an entity organized to buy, re-entitle and develop land parcels in Southern California. In connection with preparation of its annual financial statements and as a result of the aforementioned decline in Southern California land values, Aimco has determined that its recorded investment of $47.1 million is not recoverable, and accordingly recognized an impairment loss of $16.3 million, or $10.0 million, net of tax, during the fourth quarter 2008.
 
Dividends on Common Stock
On December 18, 2008, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $2.08 per share of Class A Common Stock, paid on January 29, 2009, to stockholders of record on December 29, 2008. A portion of the special dividend in the amount of $0.60 per share represented payment of the regular dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, and a portion represented an additional dividend payment in the amount of $1.48 per share associated with taxable gains arising from property dispositions in 2008.
Aimco intends to adjust the regular dividend from $0.60 per share per quarter to $0.25 per share per quarter, or an annual amount of $1.00 per share, effective with the dividend expected to be paid in the second quarter 2009. The dividend is set in response to current market conditions and Aimco's desire to retain cash for deleveraging and accretive investment activities, including the repurchase of common and preferred shares.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the Fourth Quarter 2008 earnings conference call to be held Friday, February 6, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call via telephone by dialing 800.860.2442, or 412.858.4600 for international callers, and indicating that you wish to join the Apartment Investment and Management Company Fourth Quarter 2008 earnings conference call. If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the conference call replay for seven days by dialing 877.344.7529, or 412.317.0088 for international callers, passcode 426727, or you may access the audiocast replay by clicking on the Webcasts link on Aimco's website at .
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx
Supplemental Information
The full text of this release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available on Aimco's Website at the link .
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/QEarnRelease.aspx
 
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2009 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate sales proceeds for debt repayment and other purposes and to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; national and local economic conditions; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is one of the largest owners and operators of apartment communities in the United States with 992 properties, including 162,807 apartment units, and serves approximately 500,000 residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com
Contact
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations 303.691.4327
Investor@Aimco.com
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement First Quarter and Full Year 2009 (unaudited)
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2009 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate sales proceeds for debt repayment and other purposes and to generate fee income as anticipated.
Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; national and local economic conditions; energy costs; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; insurance risk; acquisition and development risks, including failure of such acquisitions to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.
Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
 
Special Supplement to Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Release
July 2008, October 2008 and December 2008 Special Dividends
In July 2008, October 2008 and December 2008, Aimco declared special dividends, which were paid on August 29, 2008, December 1, 2008 and January 29, 2009, respectively, in a combination of cash and stock. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that all reported per share data, for current and prior periods, be adjusted to reflect the issuance of the shares in connection with these special dividends as if such shares had been issued at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The following table provides Aimco's results for the three months and years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, prior to the special dividends, and as currently reported, after the effect of the special dividends.
The adjusted per share results reflect the cumulative effect of the shares issued as part of Aimco's special dividends paid in 2008 and on January 29, 2009. To estimate the approximate per share results before the effect of Aimco's special dividends, multiply the reported per share results by a factor of 1.48.
 
Impact of Special Dividends on Stockholder Value
Real Estate Investment Trust Taxation
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to stockholders each year to maintain its REIT status. In addition, a REIT is generally not subject to Federal income tax so long as 100% of its taxable income is paid in the form of dividends to its stockholders. In the past, most REITs satisfied this "dividends paid" requirement and avoided taxation at the REIT level by distributing cash dividends to their stockholders. In 2008, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") provided Aimco with private letter rulings that allow stock dividends to be deducted in calculating "dividends paid," provided that stockholders had the option to receive at least 20% of the total dividend in cash and the remainder in stock. In December 2008, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2008-68 (the "Revenue Procedure"), which provides that stock dividends paid by any REIT may be deducted in calculating "dividends paid," provided that stockholders have the option to receive at least 10% of the total dividend in cash. The Revenue Procedure is effective for distributions declared on or after January 1, 2008, and applies only to distributions declared for a tax year ending on or before December 31, 2009. A dividend of stock in lieu of cash allows a REIT to retain additional cash for corporate purposes, including improving liquidity, reducing debt and other accretive investment activities, including common and preferred share repurchases.
Impact of Stock Dividends on Stockholder Value
Similar to stock splits, stock dividends are neither accretive nor dilutive to stockholder value. The price adjustment to a share of stock at the time a stock dividend is paid is expected to be equivalent to the amount of the stock dividend per share. All stockholders receiving a portion of their dividends in stock will own more shares but their percentage ownership interest in the REIT remains unchanged. Thus, a stock dividend is economically neutral to investors, before the effect on investor taxable income. Similarly, the total market capitalization of the company remains unchanged. The neutral impact of a 10% stock dividend is illustrated below:
Impact of Aimco Special Dividends
During 2007 and 2008, Aimco sold 231 properties, generating significant cash proceeds and gain on sale. In order to provide a "dividends paid" deduction sufficient to avoid taxation at the REIT level and to retain cash for deleveraging and accretive investment activities, Aimco distributed 38.5 million shares in connection with special dividends. For those stockholders holding Aimco common stock from December 2007 through January 2009, the additional shares increased their total shares by 48% but did not change their percentage interest in Aimco.
 
Impact of Accretive Share Repurchases on Net Asset Value
As demonstrated on the previous page, a stock dividend is neither accretive nor dilutive to stockholder value. However, repurchasing shares at prices below net asset value is accretive to net asset value per share for the non-selling stockholders. The accretive impact of such a share repurchase is illustrated below.
The hypothetical example above is based upon the following assumptions:
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
(See footnotes on page 2 of 2)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Notes to Schedule 2:
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of December 31, 2008 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data
(in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
Common Stock and Equivalents
Notes:
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (continued)
III. Loan Closings
YEAR-TO-DATE LOAN CLOSINGS
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Same Store Operating Results Fourth Quarter 2008 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2007 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Same Store Operating Results Fourth Quarter 2008 Compared to Third Quarter 2008 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Same Store Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7
Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Acquisition and Sales Activity (unaudited)
FOURTH QUARTER 2008 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2008 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent)
FOURTH QUARTER 2008 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent) [1]
YEAR-TO-DATE 2008 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent) [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures Year Ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties, redevelopment or entitlement. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties, redevelopment and entitlement for the year ended December 31, 2008. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 126,834 average units, including 109,956 conventional and 16,879 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity Year Ended December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Aimco Capital (in thousands, unaudited)
Investment Management Income
Summary of Projected Tax Credit Income
 
Supplemental Schedule 12
Apartment Unit Summary As of December 31, 2008 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Properties that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for preferred stock redemption related costs and operating real estate impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco Operating Partnership's share. Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO. Please refer to Supplemental Schedule 9 for further detail.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting preferred stock redemption related redemption related costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP.
OTHER EXPENSES, NET: Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal).
OTHER PROPERTIES: Conventional properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties that have been owned for more than one year and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


