FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20091030111203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated October 30, 2009, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its third quarter 2009 earnings conference call on October 30, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-843-0890, or 412-317-9250 for international callers, and using passcode 9147658. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay for 14 days by dialing 877-344-7529 (412-317-0088 for international callers) and using passcode 434199 or you may access the audiocast replay by clicking the Webcasts link on Aimco's website at www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at and click on Quarterly Earnings Releases under the Investor Information menu. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 30, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apartment Investment and Management Company (NYSE:AIV) Announces Third Quarter 2009 Results
Denver, Colorado  October 30, 2009
Third Quarter 2009 Highlights
At the beginning of third quarter 2009, Aimco had $350 million of term debt outstanding, due first quarter 2011. During third quarter 2009, Aimco repaid $90 million of term debt with proceeds from property sales. An additional payment of $50 million was made after quarter's end, reducing the balance to $210 million.
Aimco has focused on reducing refunding risk by accelerating refinancing of property loans maturing prior to 2012. At the beginning of third quarter 2009, Aimco's share of property debt maturing during 2009 through 2011 was $221.3 million. During third quarter, through refinancing, repayment and property sales, Aimco reduced these maturities by $36.8 million. As of September 30, 2009, the balance of property debt maturing through 2011 totaled $184.5 million in nine loans. Of these loans, refunding risk has since been eliminated on all but four loans totaling $164.0 million which are expected to be refinanced at their maturity in 2011.
 
2009 Outlook
Management Comments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco properties enjoyed high occupancy and property incomes from all portfolios taken together were stable. Same Store rents declined from 2008; however the rate of decline eased during third quarter. Property values appear to have stabilized after substantial declines from their 2007 high. Proceeds from property sales are repaying our term debt. Refunding risk has been further reduced by extending most property debt maturities before 2012. Business simplification has led to lower offsite costs, including G&A expenses, and provided a substantial offset to earnings dilution from property sales. Notwithstanding a solid quarter, business conditions remain fragile and unpredictable. We look to the future with optimism and also great caution."
President, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer David Robertson adds: "During the quarter we sold $367 million of assets, plus an additional $124 million during October. Proceeds from these sales were used to pay down our term debt by $140 million, leaving a $210 million balance due in early 2011. We currently have an additional $800 million of assets either under contract or in negotiations, and we plan to sell approximately $450 million of this amount to repay our term debt, bringing total sales in 2009 to approximately $1.3 billion. Any additional sales will be used to fund investments in our existing portfolio or the acquisition of higher rated assets in our target markets."
 
Third quarter 2009 Financial Results
In accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), all previously reported share and per share data have been adjusted to take into account the special dividends paid on December 1, 2008, and January 29, 2009, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 12.6 million and 15.6 million additional shares of Aimco's Class A Common Stock, respectively.
Adjusted Diluted Per Share Results
*
Property Operations
Property operating results discussed below represent Aimco's share of reported amounts.
Conventional Real Estate Operations
Conventional real estate operations relate to Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities. At the end of third quarter 2009, this portfolio included 266 properties with 82,142 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 90%. Average rents for the conventional real estate portfolio increased 5.6% from $987 per unit during third quarter 2008 to $1,042 per unit during third quarter 2009. During third quarter 2009, conventional real estate operations generated net operating income of $127.2 million. Aimco's Same Store portfolio net operating income was $106.1 million for third quarter 2009, down 5.4% from third quarter 2008, while conventional redevelopment property operations generated net operating income of $22.6 million during the quarter, an increase of 16.4% compared to third quarter 2008.
 
"Same Store" Results
In the third quarter 2009, the Same Store portfolio included 195 communities with 57,968 Effective Units (see the Glossary) based on Aimco's weighted average ownership of 91%.
Comparing Same Store results in third quarter 2009 with third quarter 2008, total revenue decreased $5.2 million, or 2.9%. The decrease in revenue was primarily the result of lower average daily occupancy, down 20 basis points from 95.0% to 94.8%, and lower average rent, down 3.5% or $36 per unit, from $1,026 per unit to $990 per unit. Same Store expenses increased $0.8 million or 1.1%, primarily due to higher property tax and insurance expenses, partially offset by decreased turnover costs.
Same Store Operating Results
See Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for additional information on Same Store operating results.
Affordable Real Estate Operations
At the end of third quarter 2009, Aimco's affordable real estate portfolio included 271 properties with 30,816 units in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 54%. During third quarter 2009, affordable property operations generated net operating income of $17.9 million. Total affordable property net operating income was 6.0% higher than during third quarter 2008. Average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio decreased 1.1% from 97.6% for third quarter 2008 to 96.5% for third quarter 2009, while average rent per unit increased 3.6% from $728 to $754 per unit.
Investment Management
Investment management includes activities related to our owned portfolio of properties as well as services provided to affiliated partnerships. Investment management includes portfolio strategy, capital allocation, joint ventures, tax credit syndication, acquisitions, dispositions and other transaction activities. Within our owned portfolio, we refer to these activities as Portfolio Management, and their benefit is seen in property operating results and in investment gains. For affiliated partnerships, we refer to these activities as Asset Management for which we are separately compensated through fees paid by third party investors.
Investment management income includes fees earned for providing asset management services to third party investors, syndication fees and deferred income related to tax credit activities, and portfolio management income earned through investment gains on our owned assets. Aimco's share of investment management income, net of tax, was $6.0 million in the third quarter 2009 compared to $27.7 million in third quarter 2008. Income based on third quarter transactions contributed less than 1% of third quarter FFO. See Supplemental Schedule 11 for additional information on investment management income.
 
Portfolio Management
Portfolio management includes the ongoing allocation of investment capital to meet our geographic and product type goals. Our geographic allocation strategy focuses on the 20 largest U.S. markets as measured by total market capitalization. We believe these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. These target markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. As we execute this strategy, we expect to reduce our investment in markets outside the 20 largest markets and to increase our investment in the 20 largest markets both by making acquisitions and through redevelopment spending.
In third quarter 2009, Aimco sold 21 conventional properties and seven affordable properties with 6,031 and 777 units, respectively, for $366.6 million in gross proceeds (Aimco share $297.6 million). Aimco's share of net proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $125.0 million.
See Supplemental Schedules 6 and 7 for additional details regarding Aimco's portfolio allocation and Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional information on disposition activity.
Redevelopment
During third quarter 2009, Aimco invested $8.6 million in conventional redevelopment projects and completed five of the 21 projects that were active at the end of the second quarter. Aimco also invested $9.2 million in seven tax credit redevelopment projects during third quarter 2009.
Balance Sheet and Liquidity
At the end of third quarter 2009, Aimco leverage was provided 83% by long-term non-recourse property debt of $5.8 billion ($5.2 billion Aimco share) at a weighted average interest rate of 5.4% and weighted average maturity of 8.7 years. Aimco's preferred securities represented approximately 12% of Aimco's leverage at the end of the quarter at which time Aimco had $776.2 million in perpetual preferred stock and preferred partnership units at a weighted average rate of 7.6%.
Aimco's recourse debt is limited to its revolving credit facility and corporate term debt, which together represented approximately 4% of Aimco's leverage at the end of third quarter 2009. At that time, the balance on Aimco's revolving credit facility was $15.1 million and available capacity was $119.5 million, net of $45.4 million of letters of credit drawn against the facility. Aimco's revolving credit facility is used for working capital purposes and to secure letters of credit used in the Aimco business. The balance on Aimco's corporate term debt of $260.0 million at September 30, 2009, matures in first quarter 2011. Subsequent to quarter's end, the entire balance on the line of credit was repaid and $50 million was repaid on the term debt. In connection with these recourse obligations, Aimco is subject to Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants of 1.50:1 and 1.30:1, respectively, as defined in the Glossary. For third quarter 2009, Aimco's Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage ratios were 1.60:1 and 1.38:1, respectively. Aimco expects to remain in compliance with these covenants.
At September 30, 2009, Aimco had outstanding $6.2 billion of consolidated debt, which consisted of $5.2 billion of fixed rate property debt, $0.7 billion of floating rate property debt and $0.3 billion of floating rate corporate debt. In addition, Aimco had outstanding $67.0 million of floating rate preferred stock. Aimco's floating rate property debt includes $474.7 million of tax-exempt bonds with rates tied to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA). Over the last twenty years the SIFMA rate has moved at approximately 0.73% for a 1.00% change in LIBOR, which reduces Aimco's FFO exposure to changes in floating interest rates. Additionally, Aimco's FFO exposure is offset by floating rate assets, such as cash and notes receivable. Based on Aimco's proportionate share of quarter-end balances, Aimco estimates its sensitivity to a 100 basis point change in LIBOR to be approximately $0.01 per share per quarter.
See Supplemental Schedules 4 and 5 for more detail on preferred equity characteristics and debt characteristics and activity.
 
Dividends on Common Stock
On October 27, 2009, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, payable on November 30, 2009, to stockholders of record on November 20, 2009. At the end of the third quarter 2009, there were approximately 116.4 million shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding. See Supplemental Schedule 4 for additional detail on Aimco's securities.
Earnings Conference Call
Please join Aimco management for the third quarter 2009 earnings conference call to be held Friday, October 30, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time.
Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-866-843-0890 International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-9250 Passcode: 9147658 Webcast:
Live Conference Call
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx
Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-877-344-7529 International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-0088 Passcode: 434199
Conference Call Replay
The conference call replay will be available until 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on November 13, 2009.
Webcast Replay:
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx
Supplemental Information
The full text of this release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release is available on Aimco's Website at the link .
http://www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/QEarnRelease.aspx
 
Forward-looking Statements
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of fourth quarter and full year 2009 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate sales proceeds for debt repayment and other purposes, and to generate fee income as anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for tenants in such markets; national and local economic conditions; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; redevelopment risks, including failure of such redevelopments to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; insurance risk; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust headquartered in Denver, Colorado that owns and operates a geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities. Aimco, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, is one of the largest owners and operators of apartment communities in the United States with 916 properties, including 146,581 apartment units, and serves approximately 500,000 residents each year. Aimco's properties are located in 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com
Investor Relations 303.691.4350, Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations 303.691.4327
Contact
Investor@Aimco.com
 
GAAP Income Statements
Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
GAAP Income Statements (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income
 
GAAP Balance Sheets
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Outlook and Forward Looking Statement Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009 (unaudited)
This earnings release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of fourth quarter and full year 2009 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rent levels and Same Store results and Aimco's ability to close transactions necessary to generate sales proceeds for debt repayment and other purposes and to generate fee income as anticipated.
Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for tenants in such markets; national and local economic conditions; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; redevelopment risks, including failure of such redevelopments to perform in accordance with projections; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; insurance risk; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.
Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and notes thereto, as well as the risk factors described in Aimco's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1
Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (continued)
Notes to Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
(See footnotes on Page 2 of 2)
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Notes to Schedule 2:
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
Proportionate Balance Sheet Presentation As of September 30, 2009 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Additional Information and Notes:
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Share Data (in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
Common Stock and Equivalents
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
I. Debt Balances and Data
II. Debt Maturities
 
Supplemental Schedule 5 (continued)
III. Year-to-Date Loan Closings
IV. Capitalization
V. Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a) Same Store Operating Results Third Quarter 2009 Compared to Third Quarter 2008 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Same Store Operating Results Third Quarter 2009 Compared to Second Quarter 2009 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c) Same Store Operating Results Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 (unaudited) (in thousands, except site and unit data)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7 Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (unaudited)
THIRD QUARTER 2009 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2009 PROPERTY SALES ACTIVITY (dollars in millions, except average rent) [4]
YEAR-TO-DATE 2009 PROPERTY ACQUISITION ACTIVITY
There were no property acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2009.
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Expenditures Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital spending is classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), casualties or redevelopment. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capitalizable expenditures are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
The table below details Aimco's share of actual spending, on both consolidated and unconsolidated real estate partnerships, for Capital Replacements, Capital Improvements, casualties and redevelopment for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Per unit numbers are based on approximately 98,112 average units, including 82,032 conventional and 16,080 affordable units. Average units are weighted for the period and represent Effective Units excluding non-managed units. [1]
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
Summary of Redevelopment Activity Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009 (dollars in millions) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 11
Aimco Capital (in thousands, unaudited)
Investment Management Income
Summary of Projected Tax Credit Income
 
Supplemental Schedule 12
Apartment Unit Summary As of September 30, 2009 (unaudited)
 
GLOSSARY OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES: Financial and operating measures found in the Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. These measures are defined below and, where appropriate, reconciled on the accompanying Supplemental Schedules to the most comparable GAAP measures.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES: Properties that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO): AFFO is FFO (diluted) less Capital Replacement expenditures, plus non-cash charges for preferred stock redemption related costs and operating real estate impairment losses, all of which are adjusted for the Aimco Operating Partnership's share. Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for AFFO data reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES: Affordable properties benefit from government programs designed to pay rental income on behalf of people with low or moderate incomes and includes properties that were owned for all periods presented.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI expenditures include all non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): CR expenditures do not increase the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR expenditures are deducted in the calculation of AFFO. Please refer to Supplemental Schedule 9 for further detail.
CASUALTY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: Casualty capital expenditures represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers based on deductibles associated with each loss.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO: As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Aimco's adjusted total earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (which excludes certain capital expenditure reserves) to (b) the actual debt service, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
EFFECTIVE UNITS: Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share.
FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO: As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Aimco's adjusted total earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (which excludes certain capital expenditure reserves) to (b) fixed charges, which represents the sum of total interest expense, amortization and dividends/distributions on preferred shares/units, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper. Aimco calculates FFO (diluted) by subtracting preferred stock redemption related redemption related costs and dividends on preferred stock and adding back dividends/distributions on dilutive preferred securities. FFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Please see Supplemental Schedule 1 for FFO data reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP.
OTHER EXPENSES, NET: Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal).
OTHER PROPERTIES: Conventional properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties that have been owned for more than one year and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES: Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio.
SAME STORE: Same Store is used commonly to describe Conventional properties managed by Aimco, in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10% and that have reached a stabilized level of occupancy during both the current and comparable prior year period. Properties classified as held for sale are not included in Same Store. These results measure operating performance without variations caused by investment transactions. Aimco provides data for consolidated Same Store properties as well as its proportionate share of consolidated and unconsolidated Same Store properties. To ensure comparability, the information for all periods shown is based on current period ownership. Please see Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6b for Same Store data reconciled to rental and other property revenues and property operating expense as determined in accordance with GAAP.


