FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20100203181107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
          On February 2, 2010, the Board of Directors of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") adopted Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws") to be effective immediately that reflect the changes described below.
     Majority Voting in Director Elections: Article II, Section 2.03 was amended to provide for what is commonly referred to as a majority vote standard in uncontested director elections. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Bylaws, each nominee to serve as a director of Aimco will be elected if, in an uncontested election, the number of votes cast for such nominee exceeds the number of votes withheld with respect to such nominee at a meeting of the stockholders that is duly called and at which a quorum is present. A nominee for director in a contested election will be elected by a plurality of all votes cast at such a meeting. Prior to the adoption of the Amended and Restated Bylaws, the plurality vote standard applied in both uncontested and contested director elections.
     The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to Aimco's Amended and Restated Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: February 3, 2010

Exhibit 3.2
As Adopted on February 2, 2010
 
 
 
Page
 
Page
 
Page
 
     . The Corporation shall hold an annual meeting of its stockholders to elect directors and transact any other business within its powers, either at 9:00 a.m. on the last Monday of April each year if not a legal holiday, or at such other time on such other day falling within 15 days before or after such date as shall be set by the board of directors. Except as the Charter, these By-laws or statute provides otherwise, any business may be considered at an annual meeting without the purpose of the meeting having been specified in the notice. Failure to hold an annual meeting does not invalidate the Corporation's existence or affect any otherwise valid corporate acts.
SECTION 1.01.
Annual Meeting
     At any time in the interval between annual meetings, a special meeting of the stockholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors by vote at a meeting or in writing (addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation) with or without a meeting. Special meetings of the stockholders shall be called by the Secretary at the request of stockholders only on the written request of stockholders entitled to cast at least 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting. A request for a special meeting shall state the purpose of the meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at it. The Secretary shall inform the stockholders who make the request of the reasonably estimated costs of preparing and mailing a notice of the meeting and, on payment of these costs to the Corporation, notify each stockholder entitled to notice of the meeting. The Board of Directors shall have sole power to fix the date and time of the special meeting. Unless requested by stockholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, a special meeting need not be called to consider any matter which is substantially the same as a matter voted on at any special meeting of stockholders held in the preceding 12 months.
SECTION 1.02.
Special Meeting
.
     Unless the Charter provides otherwise, meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place as is set from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors may determine that the meeting not be held at any place but instead be held by means of remote communication. At the request of a stockholder, the Board of Directors shall provide a place for the meeting of the stockholders.
SECTION 1.03.
Place of Meetings
.
     At the discretion of the Board of Directors and subject to any guidelines and procedures that the Board of Directors may adopt from time to time, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of the stockholders, by means of remote communication may participate in the meeting of the stockholders and may be considered present in person and may vote at the meeting of the stockholders, whether the meeting is held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication. The Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each
SECTION 1.04.
Meetings by Remote Communication
.
 
person considered present and authorized to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxy holder, the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide the stockholders and proxy holders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with the proceedings and in the event any stockholder or proxy holder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of the vote or other action shall be maintained by the Corporation.
     Not less than ten nor more than 90 days before each stockholders' meeting, the Secretary shall give notice in writing or by electronic transmission of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting and each other stockholder entitled to notice of the meeting. Any notice given by the Corporation to a stockholder is effective if given by a single notice, in writing or by electronic transmission, to all stockholders who share an address if the Corporation gives notice, in writing or by electronic transmission, to the stockholder of its intent to give a single notice and the stockholder consents to receiving a single notice or fails to object in writing within 60 days after the Corporation gives notice to the stockholder of its intent to give a single notice. A stockholder may revoke consent given, whether affirmative or implied, by written notice to the Corporation. The notice shall state the time of the meeting, the place of the meeting, if any, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and may vote at the meeting and, if the meeting is a special meeting or notice of the purpose is required by statute, the purpose of the meeting. Notice is given to a stockholder when it is personally delivered to the stockholder, left at the stockholder's residence or usual place of business, mailed to the stockholder at the stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation or transmitted to the stockholder by an electronic transmission to any address or number of the stockholder at which the stockholder receives electronic transmissions. If the Corporation has received a request from a stockholder that notice not be sent by electronic transmission, the Corporation may not provide notice to the stockholder by electronic transmission. Notice given by electronic transmission shall be considered ineffective if the Corporation is unable to deliver two consecutive notices and the inability to deliver the notices becomes known to the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the transfer agent or other person responsible for giving the notice. The inadvertent failure to deliver any notice by electronic transmission does not invalidate any meeting or other action. An affidavit of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporation that notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission, in the absence of actual fraud, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated in the affidavit. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, each person who is entitled to notice waives notice if the person before or after the meeting delivers a written waiver or a waiver by electronic transmission which is filed with the records of stockholders' meetings, or is present at the meeting in person or by proxy.
SECTION 1.05.
Notice of Meetings; Waiver of Notice
.
     . Unless any statute or the Charter provides otherwise, at a meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of stockholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting constitutes a quorum, and a majority of all the votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present is sufficient to approve any matter which properly comes before the meeting, except that a plurality of all the votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present is sufficient to elect a director.
SECTION 1.06.
Quorum; Voting
 
     . Whether or not a quorum is present, a meeting of stockholders convened on the date for which it was called may be adjourned from time to time without further notice by chairman of the meeting to a date not more than 120 days after the original record date. Any business which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified may be deferred and transacted at any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present.
SECTION 1.07.
Adjournments
     Unless the Charter provides for a greater or lesser number of votes per share or limits or denies voting rights, each outstanding share of stock, regardless of class, is entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders; however, a share is not entitled to be voted if any installment payable on it is overdue and unpaid. In all elections for directors, each share of stock may be voted for as many individuals as there are directors to be elected and for whose election the share is entitled to be voted. A stockholder may vote the stock the stockholder owns of record either in person or by proxy. A stockholder may sign a writing authorizing another person to act as proxy. Signing may be accomplished by the stockholder or the stockholder's authorized agent signing the writing or causing the stockholder's signature to be affixed to the writing by any reasonable means, including facsimile signature. A stockholder may authorize another person to act as proxy by transmitting, or authorizing the transmission of, an authorization by a telegram, cablegram, datagram, electronic mail or any other electronic or telephonic means to the person authorized to act as proxy or to any other person authorized to receive the proxy authorization on behalf of the person authorized to act as the proxy, including a proxy solicitation firm or proxy support service organization. Unless a proxy provides otherwise, it is not valid more than 11 months after its date. A proxy is revocable by a stockholder at any time without condition or qualification unless the proxy states that it is irrevocable and the proxy is coupled with an interest. A proxy may be made irrevocable for so long as it is coupled with an interest. The interest with which a proxy may be coupled includes an interest in the stock to be voted under the proxy or another general interest in the Corporation or its assets or liabilities.
SECTION 1.08.
General Right to Vote; Proxies
.
     . At each meeting of stockholders, a full, true and complete list of all stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, showing the number and class of shares held by each and certified by the transfer agent for such class or by the Secretary, shall be furnished by the Secretary.
SECTION 1.09.
List of Stockholders
     . At all meetings of stockholders, unless the voting is conducted by inspectors, the proxies and ballots shall be received, and all questions touching the qualification of voters and the validity of proxies, the acceptance or rejection of votes and procedures for the conduct of business not otherwise specified by these By-Laws, the Charter or law, shall be decided or determined by the chairman of the meeting. If demanded by stockholders, present in person or by proxy, entitled to cast 10% in number of votes entitled to be cast, or if ordered by the chairman of the meeting, the vote upon any election or question shall be taken by ballot. Before any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors may, and on the request of stockholders, present in person or by proxy, entitled to cast 10% in number of votes entitled to be cast, shall, appoint persons to act as inspectors of election at the meeting and any adjournment thereof. If no inspectors of election are so appointed, the chairman of the meeting may appoint inspectors of election at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one or three. If inspectors are appointed at a meeting on the request of stockholders, the holders of a
SECTION 1.10.
Conduct of Voting
 
majority of shares present in person or by proxy shall determine whether one or three inspectors are to be appointed. No candidate for election as a director at a meeting shall serve as an inspector thereat. If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, the chairman of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy. The inspectors shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies; receive votes, ballots or consents; hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote; count and tabulate all votes or consents; determine when polls shall close; determine the result; and do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders. Unless so demanded or ordered, no vote need be by ballot and voting need not be conducted by inspectors.
     . Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice(s) provided for in Section 1.12 and Section 1.13, (ii) who is entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting and (iii) who complied with the notice(s) procedures set forth in Section 1.12 and Section 1.13. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at a special meeting of stockholders (a) only pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting and (b), in the case of nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation (A) who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in Section 1.12, (B) who is entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting and (C) who complied with the notice procedures set forth in Section 1.12. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.12, Section 1.13 and this Section and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with Section 1.12, Section 1.13 and this Section, to declare that such defective nomination or proposal be disregarded.
SECTION 1.11.
Conduct of Business
     . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section. A stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from the anniversary date of the preceding year's
SECTION 1.12.
Advance Notice Provisions for Election of Directors
provided, however
 
annual meeting, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the 90 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made; and (b) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever first occurs. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be in writing and set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and address of such stockholder as they appear on the Corporation's books and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, (ii) the following information regarding the ownership interests of the stockholder or such other beneficial owner, which shall be supplemented in writing by the stockholder not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such interests as of the record date: (A) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner; (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a ) directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation; (C) any proxy, contract, agreement, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation; (D) any "short interest" in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of this Section 1.12 and Section 1.13, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security); (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation; (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household; (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other
th
th
Exchange Act
"
"
Derivative Instrument
"
 
information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman of the meeting shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded. No adjournment or postponement of a meeting of stockholders shall commence a new period for the giving of notice of a stockholder proposal hereunder.
     . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section. A stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from the anniversary date of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the 90 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary must in writing and set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address of such stockholder as they appear on the Corporation's books and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (iii) the following information regarding the ownership interests of the stockholder or such other beneficial owner, which shall be supplemented in writing by the stockholder not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such interests as of the record date: (A) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner; (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation; (C) any proxy, contract, agreement, arrangement, understanding, or relationship
SECTION 1.13.
Advance Notice Provisions for Business to be Transacted at Annual Meeting
provided, however
th
th
 
pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation; (D) any short interest in any security of the Corporation; (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation; (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household; (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business; and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting. No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.12 or in this Section, , that once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in Section 1.12 nor in this Section shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman of the meeting shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted. No adjournment or postponement of a meeting of stockholders shall commence a new period for the giving of notice of a stockholder proposal hereunder.
provided, however
     . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors. All powers of the Corporation may be exercised by or under authority of the Board of Directors, except as conferred on or reserved to the stockholders by statute or by the Charter or By-Laws.
SECTION 2.01.
Function of Directors
     . Each director shall be a natural person at least 18 years of age. The Corporation shall have at least three directors. The Corporation shall have the number of directors provided in the Charter until changed as herein provided. A majority of the entire Board of Directors may alter the number of directors set by the Charter to not exceeding 9 (plus such additional number as may needed to satisfy the right of the holders of any class of stock of the Corporation to demand nomination of a director) nor less than the minimum number then permitted herein, but the action may not affect the tenure of office of any director.
SECTION 2.02.
Qualification and Number of Directors
     At each annual meeting, the stockholders shall elect directors to hold office until the next annual meeting and until their successors are elected and qualify. In the case of any "uncontested" election (as defined below), each director shall be elected by a majority of the total votes cast for and against
SECTION 2.03.
Election and Tenure of Directors; Resignations.
 
such director nominee at a meeting of stockholders duly called and at which a quorum is present. In the event of a contested election, directors shall be elected by a plurality of votes cast at a meeting of stockholders duly called and at which a quorum is present. Each share may be voted for as many individuals as there are directors to be elected and for whose election the share is entitled to be voted. If, in an uncontested election, a nominee for election as a director receives a greater number of "against" votes for his or her election than votes "for" such election (a ), then such director, as a holdover director under Maryland law, shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors for consideration following certification of such vote. The following shall not be considered votes cast "for" or "against" a nominee: (a) a share otherwise present at the meeting but for which there is an abstention and (b) a share otherwise present at the meeting as to which a stockholder gives no direction. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall promptly consider any resignation offer tendered pursuant to this Section 2.03 and a range of possible responses, based on any facts or circumstances they consider relevant, and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to the response to the resignation offer. If each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee received a Majority Against Vote at the same election, then the directors who did not receive a Majority Against Vote shall appoint a committee amongst themselves to consider the resignation offers and recommend to the Board of Directors a response to the resignation offer. The Board of Directors will take action on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation (or committee of directors' recommendation) within 90 days following certification of the stockholder vote. The Board of Directors expects that any director whose resignation is under consideration to abstain from participating in any decision regarding that resignation. An election will be deemed to be "uncontested" if no stockholder provides notice of an intention to nominate one or more candidates to compete with the Board of Directors' nominees in a director election in the manner required by these By-Laws, or if any such stockholders have withdrawn all such nominations at least ten days prior to the Corporation's filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of its definitive proxy statement for such meeting of stockholders. Any director may resign at any time by sending notice in writing or by electronic transmission of such resignation to the principal executive office of the Corporation addressed to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. Such resignation may provide that it becomes effective upon receipt thereof, some future date, the occurrence of a certain future event (including but not limited to the failure to receive the vote specified in the second sentence of this Section 2.03) and/or the acceptance by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
"
Majority Against Vote
"
     . Any or all of the directors may be removed, with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors.
SECTION 2.04.
Removal of Director
1
     . Subject to the rights of the holders of any class of stock separately entitled to elect one or more directors, the stockholders
SECTION 2.05.
Vacancy on Board of Directors
 
 
may elect a successor to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors which results from the removal of a director. A director elected by the stockholders to fill a vacancy which results from the removal of a director serves for the balance of the term of the removed director. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class of stock separately entitled to elect one or more directors, a majority of the remaining directors, whether or not sufficient to constitute a quorum, may fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors which results from any cause except an increase in the number of directors, and a majority of the entire Board of Directors may fill a vacancy which results from an increase in the number of directors. A director elected by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy serves until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies.
     After each meeting of stockholders at which directors shall have been elected, the Board of Directors shall meet as soon thereafter as practicable for the purpose of organization and the transaction of other business. In the event that no other time and place are specified by resolution of the Board of Directors or announced by the President or the Chairman of the Board at such stockholders meeting, the Board of Directors shall meet immediately following the close of and at the place of such stockholders meeting or by means of remote communication. Any other regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on such date and time, and at such place or by means of remote communication, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. No notice of such meeting following a stockholders meeting or any other regular meeting shall be necessary if held as hereinabove provided.
SECTION 2.06.
Regular Meetings
.
     . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors by vote at a meeting, or in writing or delivered by electronic transmission with or without a meeting. A special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on such date, at any place or by means of remote communication, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the absence of designation such meeting shall be held at such place or means of remote communication as may be designated in the call.
SECTION 2.07.
Special Meetings
     . Except as provided in Section 2.06, the Secretary shall give notice to each director of each regular and special meeting of the Board of Directors. The notice shall state the time of the meeting and place or that the meeting is being held by means of remote communication. Notice is given to a director when it is delivered personally to him or her, left at his or her residence or usual place of business, or sent by electronic transmission, telegraph, facsimile transmission, or telephone, at least 24 hours before the time of the meeting or, in the alternative by mail to his or her address as it shall appear on the records of the Corporation, at least 72 hours before the time of the meeting. Unless these By-Laws or a resolution of the Board of Directors provides otherwise, the notice need not state the business to be transacted at or the purposes of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. No notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors need be given to any director who attends except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, or to any director who delivers a written waiver or a waiver by electronic transmission which is filed with the records of the meeting either before or after the holding thereof, waiving such notice. Any meeting of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may adjourn from time to time to
SECTION 2.08.
Notice of Meeting
 
reconvene at the same or some other place, and no notice need be given of any such adjourned meeting other than by announcement.
     . A majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, the directors present by majority vote and without notice other than by announcement may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. Unless statute or the Charter or By-Laws requires a greater proportion, the action of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present is action of the Board of Directors. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if a unanimous consent which sets forth the action is given in writing or by electronic transmission by each member of the Board of Directors and filed in paper or electronic form with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.09.
Quorum; Action by Directors
     . Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time. Participation in a meeting by these means constitutes presence in person at a meeting.
SECTION 2.10.
Meeting by Conference Telephone
     . By resolution of the Board of Directors a fixed sum and expenses, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or of committees thereof, and other compensation for their services as such or on committees of the Board of Directors, may be paid to directors. Directors who are full-time employees of the Corporation need not be paid for attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors or committees thereof for which fees are paid to other directors. A director who serves the Corporation in any other capacity also may receive compensation for such other services, pursuant to a resolution of the directors.
SECTION 2.11.
Compensation
     A director of the Corporation who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his or her dissent or abstention shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless he or she shall file his or her written dissent to such action with the person acting as the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or shall forward such dissent by registered mail to the Secretary of the Corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. Such right to dissent shall not
SECTION 2.12.
Presumption of Assent
.
 
apply to a director who votes in favor of such action or fails to make his dissent known at the meeting.
     . The Board of Directors may appoint from among its members an Executive Committee and other committees composed of one or more directors and delegate to these committees any of the powers of the Board of Directors, except the power to authorize dividends on stock, elect directors, issue stock other than as provided in the next sentence, recommend to the stockholders any action which requires stockholder approval, amend these By-Laws, or approve any merger or share exchange which does not require stockholder approval. If the Board of Directors has given general authorization for the issuance of stock providing for or establishing a method or procedure for determining the maximum number of shares to be issued, a committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with that general authorization or any stock option or other plan or program adopted by the Board of Directors, may authorize or fix the terms of stock subject to classification or reclassification and the terms on which any stock may be issued, including all terms and conditions required or permitted to be established or authorized by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 3.01.
Committees
     . Each committee may fix rules of procedure for its business. A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee. The members of a committee present at any meeting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may appoint a director to act in the place of an absent member. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of a committee may be taken without a meeting if a unanimous consent which sets forth the action is given in writing or by electronic transmission by each member of the committee and filed in paper or electronic form with the minutes of the committee. The members of a committee may conduct any meeting thereof by conference telephone or other means of communication in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.10.
SECTION 3.02.
Committee Procedure
     . The Corporation shall have a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. It may also have a Chairman of the Board and a Vice Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors shall designate who shall serve as chief executive officer, who shall have general supervision of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may designate a chief operating officer, who shall have supervision of the operations of the Corporation. In the absence of any designation the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, shall serve as chief executive officer, and the President shall serve as chief operating officer. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, or if there be none, the President shall be the chief executive officer. The same person may hold both offices. The Corporation may also have one or more Vice-Presidents, assistant officers, and subordinate officers as may be established by the Board of Directors. A person may hold more than one office in the Corporation except that no person may serve concurrently as both President and Vice-President
SECTION 4.01.
Executive and Other Officers
 
of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be directors, and the other officers may be directors.
     . The Chairman of the Board, if one be elected, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present. Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Directors, he or she shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation. In general, he or she shall perform such duties as are customarily performed by the chief executive officer of a corporation, may perform any duties of the President and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.02.
Chairman of the Board
     . The Vice Chairman of the Board, if one be elected, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.03.
Vice Chairman of the Board
     . Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation and perform the duties customarily performed by chief operating officers. He or she may execute, in the name of the Corporation, all authorized deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, except in cases in which the signing and execution thereof shall have been expressly delegated to some other officer or agent of the Corporation. In general, he or she shall perform such other duties customarily performed by a president of a corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
SECTION 4.04.
President
     . The Vice-President or Vice-Presidents, at the request of the chief executive officer or the President, or in the President's absence or during his or her inability to act, shall perform the duties and exercise the functions of the President, and when so acting shall have the powers of the President. If there be more than one Vice-President, the Board of Directors may determine which one or more of the Vice-Presidents shall perform any of such duties or exercise any of such functions, or if such determination is not made by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the President may make such determination; otherwise any of the Vice-Presidents may perform any of such duties or exercise any of such functions. Each Vice-President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers, and have such additional descriptive designations in their titles (if any), as are from time to time assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the President.
SECTION 4.05.
Vice-Presidents
     . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders, of the Board of Directors and of any committees, in books provided for the purpose; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws or as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records of the Corporation; he or she may witness any document on behalf of the Corporation, the execution of which is duly authorized, see that the corporate seal is affixed where such document is required or desired to be under its seal, and, when so affixed, may attest the same. In general, he or she shall perform such other duties customarily performed by a secretary of a corporation, and shall
SECTION 4.06.
Secretary
 
perform such other duties and have such other powers as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the President.
     . The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall, from time to time, be selected by the Board of Directors; he or she shall render to the President and to the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation. In general, he or she shall perform such other duties customarily performed by a treasurer of a corporation, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the President.
SECTION 4.07.
Treasurer
     . The assistant and subordinate officers of the Corporation are all officers below the office of Vice-President, Secretary, or Treasurer. The assistant or subordinate officers shall have such duties as are from time to time assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the President.
SECTION 4.08.
Assistant and Subordinate Officers
     . The Board of Directors shall elect the officers of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize any committee or officer to appoint assistant and subordinate officers. Election or appointment of an officer, employee or agent shall not of itself create contract rights. All officers shall be appointed to hold their offices, respectively, during the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors (or, as to any assistant or subordinate officer, any committee or officer authorized by the Board of Directors) may remove an officer at any time. The removal of an officer does not prejudice any of his or her contract rights. The Board of Directors (or, as to any assistant or subordinate officer, any committee or officer authorized by the Board of Directors) may fill a vacancy which occurs in any office for the unexpired portion of the term.
SECTION 4.09.
Election, Tenure and Removal of Officers
     . The Board of Directors shall have power to fix the salaries and other compensation and remuneration, of whatever kind, of all officers of the Corporation. No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may authorize any committee or officer, upon whom the power of appointing assistant and subordinate officers may have been conferred, to fix the salaries, compensation and remuneration of such assistant and subordinate officers.
SECTION 4.10.
Compensation
     . The Board of Directors may from time to time confer upon any employee of a division of the Corporation the title of President, Vice President, Treasurer or Controller of such division or any other title or titles deemed appropriate, or may authorize the Chairman of the Board or the President to do so. Any such titles so conferred may be discontinued and withdrawn at any time by the Board of Directors, or by the Chairman of the Board or the President if so authorized by the Board of Directors. Any employee of a division designated by such a divisional title shall have the powers and duties with
SECTION 5.01.
Conferring Divisional Titles
 
respect to such division as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President.
     . The conferring of divisional titles shall not create an office of the Corporation under Article IV unless specifically designated as such by the Board of Directors; but any person who is an officer of the Corporation may also have a divisional title.
SECTION 5.02.
Effect of Divisional Titles
     The Board of Directors may determine to issue certificated or uncertificated shares of capital stock and other securities of the Corporation. For certificated stock, each stockholder is entitled to certificates which represent and certify the shares of stock he or she holds in the Corporation. Each stock certificate shall include on its face the name of the Corporation, the name of the stockholder or other person to whom it is issued, and the class of stock and number of shares it represents. It shall also include on its face or back (a) a statement of any restrictions on transferability and a statement of the designations and any preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the stock of each class which the Corporation is authorized to issue, of the differences in the relative rights and preferences between the shares of each series of a preferred or special class in series which the Corporation is authorized to issue, to the extent they have been set, and of the authority of the Board of Directors to set the relative rights and preferences of subsequent series of a preferred or special class of stock or (b) a statement which provides in substance that the Corporation will furnish a full statement of such information to any stockholder on request and without charge. Such request may be made to the Secretary or to its transfer agent. Except as provided in the Maryland Uniform Commercial Code  Investment Securities, the fact that a stock certificate does not contain or refer to a restriction on transferability that is adopted after the date of issuance does not mean that the restriction is invalid or unenforceable. It shall be in such form, not inconsistent with law or with the Charter, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors or any officer or officers designated for such purpose by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each stock certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or a Vice-President, and countersigned by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, or an Assistant Treasurer. Each certificate may be sealed with the actual corporate seal or a facsimile of it or in any other form and the signatures may be either manual or facsimile signatures. A certificate is valid and may be issued whether or not an officer who signed it is still an officer when it is issued. A certificate may not be issued until the stock represented by it is fully paid.
SECTION 6.01.
Certificates for Stock
.
     . The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates of stock; and may appoint transfer agents and registrars thereof. The duties of transfer agent and registrar may be combined.
SECTION 6.02.
Transfers
     The Board of Directors may, and shall have the sole power to, set a record date or direct that the stock transfer books be closed for a stated period for the purpose of making any proper determination with
SECTION 6.03.
Record Dates or Closing of Transfer Books
.
 
respect to stockholders, including which stockholders are entitled to request a special meeting of stockholders, notice of a meeting of stockholders, vote at a meeting of stockholders, receive a dividend, or be allotted other rights. The record date may not be prior to the close of business on the day the record date is fixed nor, subject to Section 1.06, more than 90 days before the date on which the action requiring the determination will be taken; the transfer books may not be closed for a period longer than 20 days; and, in the case of a meeting of stockholders, the record date or the closing of the transfer books shall be at least ten days before the date of the meeting. Any shares of the Corporation's own stock acquired by the Corporation between the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders and the time of the meeting may be voted at the meeting by the holder of record as of the record date and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares entitled to be voted at the meeting.
     . The Corporation shall maintain a stock ledger which contains the name and address of each stockholder and the number of shares of stock of each class which the stockholder holds. The stock ledger may be in written form or in any other form which can be converted within a reasonable time into written form for visual inspection. The original or a duplicate of the stock ledger shall be kept at the offices of a transfer agent for the particular class of stock, or, if none, at the principal office in the State of Maryland or the principal executive offices of the Corporation.
SECTION 6.04.
Stock Ledger
     . The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution a procedure by which a stockholder of the Corporation may certify in writing to the Corporation that any shares of stock registered in the name of the stockholder are held for the account of a specified person other than the stockholder. The resolution shall set forth the class of stockholders who may certify; the purpose for which the certification may be made; the form of certification and the information to be contained in it; if the certification is with respect to a record date or closing of the stock transfer books, the time after the record date or closing of the stock transfer books within which the certification must be received by the Corporation; and any other provisions with respect to the procedure which the Board of Directors considers necessary or desirable. On receipt of a certification which complies with the procedure adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with this Section, the person specified in the certification is, for the purpose set forth in the certification, the holder of record of the specified stock in place of the stockholder who makes the certification.
SECTION 6.05.
Certification of Beneficial Owners
     The Board of Directors may determine the conditions for issuing a new stock certificate in place of one which is alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, or the Board of Directors may delegate such power to any officer or officers of the Corporation. In their discretion, the Board of Directors or such officer or officers may require the owner of the certificate to give bond, with sufficient surety, to indemnify the Corporation against any loss or claim arising as a result of the issuance of a new certificate. In their discretion, the Board of Directors or such officer or officers may refuse to issue such new certificate save upon the order of some court having jurisdiction in the premises.
SECTION 6.06.
Lost Stock Certificates.
     . The Corporation may, but shall not be obliged to, issue fractional shares of stock, eliminate a fractional interest by rounding off to a full share of stock, arrange for the disposition of a fractional interest by the person
SECTION 6.07.
Fractional Share Interests or Scrip
 
entitled to it, pay cash for the fair value of a fractional share of stock determined as of the time when the person entitled to receive it is determined, or issue scrip or other evidence of ownership aggregating a full share for a certificate which represents the share; but such scrip or other evidence of ownership shall not, unless otherwise provided, entitle the holder to exercise any voting rights, to receive dividends thereon or to participate in any of the assets of the Corporation in the event of liquidation. The Board of Directors may impose any reasonable condition on the issuance of scrip or other evidence of ownership, and may cause such scrip or other evidence of ownership to be issued subject to the condition that it shall become void if not exchanged for a certificate representing a full share of stock before a specified date or subject to the condition that the shares for which such scrip or other evidence of indebtedness is exchangeable may be sold by the Corporation and the proceeds thereof distributed to the holders of such scrip or other evidence of indebtedness, or subject to a provision of forfeiture of such proceeds to the Corporation if not claimed within a period of not less than three years from the date the scrip or other evidence of ownership was originally issued.
     . All checks, drafts and orders for the payment of money, notes and other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of the Corporation, shall, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice-President, an Assistant Vice-President, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
SECTION 7.01.
Checks, Drafts, Etc
     . The President, chief accounting officer or such other executive officer designated by the Board of Directors by resolution shall prepare annually a full and correct statement of the affairs of the Corporation, to include a balance sheet and a financial statement of operations for the preceding fiscal year. The statement of affairs shall be submitted at the annual meeting of the stockholders and, within 20 days after the meeting, placed on file at the Corporation's principal office.
SECTION 7.02.
Annual Statement of Affairs
     . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the 12 calendar months period ending December 31 in each year, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 7.03.
Fiscal Year
     . If declared by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof, the Corporation may pay dividends on its shares in cash, property, or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, unless such dividend is contrary to law or to a restriction contained in the Charter.
SECTION 7.04.
Dividends
     The Board of Directors may require any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation to give a bond to the Corporation, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties, with one or more sureties and in such amount as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors.
SECTION 7.05.
Bonds
.
 
     . Any indemnification or payment of costs and expenses in advance of the final disposition of any proceeding, shall be made promptly, and in any event within 60 days, upon the written request of the director or officer entitled to seek indemnification (the ). The right to indemnification and advances hereunder shall be enforceable by the Indemnified Party in any court of competent jurisdiction, if (i) the Corporation denies such request, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition thereof is made within 60 days. The Indemnified Party's costs and expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred in connection with successfully establishing his or her right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation. It shall be a defense to any action for advance for expenses that (a) a determination has been made that the facts then known to those making the determination would preclude indemnification or (b) the Corporation has not received both (i) an undertaking as required by law to repay such advances in the event it shall ultimately be determined that the standard of conduct has not been met and (ii) a written affirmation by the Indemnified Party of such Indemnified Party's good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Corporation has been met.
SECTION 8.01.
Procedure
"Indemnified Party"
     . The indemnification and advance of expenses provided by the Charter and these By-Laws shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification or advance of expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), or any agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or other provision that is consistent with law, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office or while employed by or acting as agent for the Corporation, shall continue in respect of all events occurring while a person was a director or officer after such person has ceased to be a director or officer, and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of such person. The Corporation shall not be liable for any payment under this By-Law in connection with a claim made by a director or officer to the extent such director or officer has otherwise actually received payment under insurance policy, agreement, vote or otherwise, of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder. All rights to indemnification and advance of expenses under the Charter of the Corporation and hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer of the Corporation who serves or served in such capacity at any time while this By-Law is in effect. Nothing herein shall prevent the amendment of this By-Law, provided that no such amendment shall diminish the rights of any person hereunder with respect to events occurring or claims made before its adoption or as to claims made after its adoption in respect of events occurring before its adoption. Any repeal or modification of this By-Law shall not in any way diminish any rights to indemnification or advance of expenses of such director or officer or the obligations of the Corporation arising hereunder with respect to events occurring, or claims made, while this By-Law or any provision hereof is in force.
SECTION 8.02.
Exclusivity, Etc
     The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any Indemnified Party against any liability asserted against and incurred by any Indemnified Party in any protected capacity or arising out of his or her position. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on its behalf in respect of any liability it may incur to provide indemnification under the Charter, this By-Law, or law.
SECTION 8.03.
Insurance.
 
     . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Article VIII shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof. The phrase "this By-Law" in this Article VIII means this Article VIII in its entirety.
SECTION 8.04.
Severability; Definitions
     . The Corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of its accounts and transactions and minutes of the proceedings of its stockholders and Board of Directors and of any executive or other committee when exercising any of the powers of the Board of Directors. The books and records of the Corporation may be in written form or in any other form which can be converted within a reasonable time into written form for visual inspection. Minutes shall be recorded in written form but may be maintained in the form of a reproduction. The original or a certified copy of these By-Laws shall be kept at the principal office of the Corporation.
SECTION 9.01.
Books and Records
     . The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal, bearing the name of the Corporation, which shall be in the charge of the Secretary. The Board of Directors may authorize one or more duplicate seals and provide for the custody thereof. If the Corporation is required to place its corporate seal to a document, it is sufficient to meet the requirement of any law, rule, or regulation relating to a corporate seal to place the word "(seal)" adjacent to the signature of the person authorized to sign the document on behalf of the Corporation.
SECTION 9.02.
Corporate Seal
     . Stock of other corporations or associations, registered in the name of the Corporation, may be voted by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice-President, or a proxy appointed by either of them. The Board of Directors, however, may by resolution appoint some other person to vote such shares, in which case such person shall be entitled to vote such shares upon the production of a certified copy of such resolution.
SECTION 9.03.
Voting Stock in Other Corporations
     . Any notice or other document which is required by these By-Laws to be mailed shall be deposited in the United States mails, postage prepaid.
SECTION 9.04.
Mail
     To the extent permitted by applicable law, and except as otherwise prescribed by the Charter or these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may authorize any officer, employee or agent of the Corporation to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. A person who holds more than one office in the Corporation may not act in more than one capacity to execute, acknowledge, or verify an instrument required by law to be executed, acknowledged, or verified by more than one officer.
SECTION 9.05.
Contracts and Agreements
.
     . The initial name and address of the resident agent of the Corporation and the initial address of the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Maryland shall be as set forth in the Charter. The Corporation may
SECTION 9.06.
Resident Agent; Principal Office
 
change its resident agent or principal office from time to time by filing with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (the ) a resolution of the Board of Directors authorizing the change, and the Corporation may change from time to time the address of its resident agent by filing with the Department a statement of the change executed by the President or any Vice-President.
"Department"
     . These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, when such power is conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Charter, at any regular meeting of the stockholders or of the Board of Directors or at any special meeting of the stockholders or of the Board of Directors if notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-Laws be contained in the notice of such special meeting. If the power to adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws is conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Charter it shall not divest or limit the power of the stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws.
SECTION 9.07.
Amendments
2
     . Each director of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his or her duties with respect to the Corporation, be entitled to rely on any information, opinion report or statement, including financial statement or other financial data, prepared or presented by an officer or employee of the Corporation whom the director reasonably believes to be reliable and competent in the matters presented, by a lawyer, certified public accountant or other person as to a matter which the director reasonably believes to be within the person's professional or expert competence or by a committee of the Board of Directors on which the director does not serve, as to a matter within its designated authority, if the director believes the committee to merit confidence.
SECTION 9.08.
Reliance
 
 
     I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Apartment Investment and Management Company, a Maryland corporation, as in effect on the date hereof.
     WITNESS my hand and seal of the Corporation.
     Date: February 2, 2010
(SEAL)


