FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20100205161451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On February 3, 2010, Apartment Investment and Management Company, a Maryland corporation ("Aimco"), AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Aimco OP"), and AIMCO/Bethesda Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AIMCO/Bethesda") (collectively with Aimco and Aimco OP, the "Borrowers") entered into the Eighth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated as of February 3, 2010 (the "Eighth Amendment"), among the Borrowers, the pledgors and guarantors named therein and the lenders party thereto. The Eighth Amendment modifies that certain Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement dated as of November 2, 2004 (as amended, the "Credit Agreement"), among the Borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
     The Eighth Amendment modifies (i) certain financial covenants with such modifications effective until (a) the Existing Revolving Commitment Termination Date of May 1, 2011, (b) October 1, 2011 if the Revolving Commitment Termination Date is extended to May 1, 2012 in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, or (c) May 1, 2012 if the Required Lenders elect to increase the Applicable Capitalization Rate in connection with such extension of the Revolving Commitment Termination Date, and (ii) the unused fee payable in respect of the usage of the Revolving Commitments.
     A copy of the Eighth Amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: February 5, 2010
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: February 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
     This EIGHTH AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED SENIOR SECURED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") is dated as of February 3, 2010 and entered into by and among APARTMENT INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY, a Maryland corporation (the ""), AIMCO PROPERTIES, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), and AIMCO/BETHESDA HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("") (the REIT, AIMCO and AIMCO/Bethesda collectively referred to herein as ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (""), as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, "") and as Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the Lenders party hereto, and is made with reference to that certain Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2004, by and among Borrowers, each lender from time to time party thereto, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and as Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and KeyBank National Association, as Syndication Agent (the ""), as amended by that certain First Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated June 16, 2005 (the ""), as amended by that certain Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated March 22, 2006 (the ""), as amended by that certain Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated August 31, 2007 (""), as amended by that certain Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated September 14, 2007 (""), as amended by that certain Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated September 9, 2008 (""), as amended by that certain Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, dated May 1, 2009 (""), and as amended by that certain Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement, dated August 4, 2009 ("") (the Original Credit Agreement as amended by the First Amendment, Second Amendment, Third Amendment, Fourth Amendment, Fifth Amendment, Sixth Amendment and Seventh Amendment is referred to as the ""; and the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment is referred to as the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings set forth in the Amended Agreement unless otherwise defined herein.
Amendment
REIT
AIMCO
AIMCO/Bethesda
Borrowers
Bank of America
Administrative Agent
Original Credit Agreement
First Amendment
Second Amendment
Third Amendment
Fourth Amendment
Fifth Amendment
Sixth Amendment
Seventh Amendment
Credit Agreement
Amended Agreement
     , Borrowers desire to amend the Credit Agreement as more particularly set forth below;
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the amendments set forth herein require the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders have consented hereto;
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the agreements, provisions and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
Section 1. AMENDMENTS TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
     Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in the following respects:
1.1
Amendments to Section 1.01
.
          The defined term "" is deleted and replaced with:
A. 
Applicable Unused Fee
     """ means 0.50% per annum based upon the Usage (as such term is defined below) as of the date of determination. As used in this definition, the term "Usage" shall mean on each date of determination the percentage of usage of the Revolving Commitments obtained by subtracting the average daily Total Revolving Outstandings for the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of determination from the aggregate Revolving Commitments then in effect."
Applicable Unused Fee
          The following defined terms in Section 1.01 shall be inserted in the correct alphabetical location:
B. 
     "' means the Eighth Amendment to this Agreement, dated as of February 3, 2010, among the Borrowers, the LC Issuer, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders party thereto."
Eighth Amendment
     "' means the date all of the conditions to effectiveness set forth in of the Eighth Amendment are satisfied."
Eighth Amendment Effective Date
Section 2
     "' means the period commencing on the Eighth Amendment Effective Date and ending on (a) the Existing Revolving Commitment Termination Date of May 1, 2011, or (b) October 1, 2011 if the Revolving Commitment Termination Date is extended to May 1, 2012 in accordance with Section 2.14, or (c) May 1, 2012 if the Required Lenders elect to increase the Applicable Capitalization Rate pursuant to Section 2.14(a) in connection with such extension of the Revolving Commitment Termination Date."
Eighth Amendment Period
     Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 7.11 shall be deleted and replaced by:
1.2
Amendments to Section 7.11
.
     "(a) Permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (i) during the Eighth Amendment Period, to be less than 1.20:1.00 and (ii) after the Eighth Amendment Period, to be less than 1.30:1.00;
     (b) Permit the Debt Service Coverage Ratio (i) during the Eighth Amendment Period, to be less than 1.40:1.00 and (ii) after the Eighth Amendment Period, to be less than 1.50:1.00;
     (c) Permit the Secured Indebtedness Ratio (i) during the Eighth Amendment Period, to exceed 0.65:1.00 and (ii) after the Eighth Amendment Period, to exceed 0.60:1.00;"
Section 2. CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS
     This Amendment shall become effective (as of the "") at such time that all of the following conditions are satisfied:
Eighth Amendment Effective Date
 
     The Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed and delivered on behalf of each of (i) the Borrowers, (ii) the Administrative Agent and (iii) the Required Lenders (or the Required Lenders shall have consented to the execution of the Amendment by providing their counterpart signatures hereto or their consent hereto to the Administrative Agent);
2.1
     Guarantors and the Borrowers and Subsidiaries of the Borrowers party to the Pledge Agreements as "Pledgors" (the "") shall have executed this Amendment with respect to and such other documents reasonably required by Administrative Agent;
2.2
Pledgors
Section 5
     The Borrowers shall have paid to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Required Lender executing this Amendment by 5:00 p.m. (EST) on February 2, 2010, an amendment fee equal to 25 basis points times such Lender's Aggregate Credit Exposure as of the Eighth Amendment Effective Date; and
2.3
     Borrowers and the Pledgors shall have delivered such other assurances, certificates, documents or consents as the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
2.4
Section 3. BORROWERS' REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
     In order to induce the Lenders to consent to this Amendment and to amend the Credit Agreement in the manner provided herein, Borrowers represent and warrant to Administrative Agent and to each Lender that the following statements are true, correct and complete:
     Borrowers have all requisite power and authority to enter into this Amendment and any other agreements, guaranties or other operative documents to be delivered pursuant to this Amendment, to carry out the transactions contemplated by, and perform their obligations under, the Amended Agreement. Each of the Borrowers, Pledgors and Guarantors is in good standing in the respective states of their organization on the Eighth Amendment Effective Date;
3.1
Corporate Power and Authority
.
     The execution and delivery of this Amendment and the performance of the Amended Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of Borrowers and the other parties delivering any of such documents, as the case may be.
3.2
Authorization of Agreements
.
     After giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default exists under the Amended Agreement as of the Eighth Amendment Effective Date. Further, after giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default would result under the Amended Agreement from the consummation of this Amendment;
3.3
No Default
.
     The execution, delivery and performance by Borrowers, Pledgors and Guarantors of this Amendment and the performance of the Amended Agreement by Borrowers, does not and will not (i) violate any provision of any applicable material law or any governmental rule or regulation applicable to Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Organization Documents of Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries or any
3.4
No Conflict
.
 
order, judgment or decree of any court or other Governmental Authority binding on Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any Contractual Obligation of Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (iii) result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted by the Amended Agreement except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (iv) require any approval of members or stockholders or any approval or consent of any Person under any Contractual Obligation of Borrowers, Pledgors, Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries, except for such approvals or consents which have been or will be obtained on or before the Eighth Amendment Effective Date or except for such approvals or consents which, if not obtained, are not reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     The execution and delivery by Borrowers, Guarantors and Pledgors of this Amendment and the performance by Borrowers, Guarantors and Pledgors under the Amended Agreement does not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, or notice to, or other action to, with or by, any federal, state or other governmental authority or regulatory body, except for filings or recordings in respect of the Liens created pursuant to the Loan Documents and except as may be required, in connection with the disposition of any Collateral, by laws generally affecting the offering and sale of securities;
3.5
Governmental Consents
.
     The Amended Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Borrowers and is enforceable against Borrowers, in accordance with its respective terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability; and
3.6
Binding Obligation
.
     After giving effect to this Amendment, the representations and warranties contained in of the Amended Agreement are and will be true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of the Eighth Amendment Effective Date to the same extent as though made on and as of such date, except representations and warranties solely to the extent such representations and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date, in which case they were true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.
3.7
Incorporation of Representations and Warranties From Amended Agreement
.
Article V
Section 4. MISCELLANEOUS
     
4.1
Reference to and Effect on the Amended Agreement and the Other Loan Documents.
          On and after the Eighth Amendment Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the other Loan Documents to the "Credit Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Amended Agreement.
A. 
 
          Except as specifically amended by this Amendment, the Amended Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
B. 
          The execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, constitute a waiver of any provision of, or operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of Administrative Agent or any Lender under, the Amended Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.
C. 
      Borrowers acknowledge that all reasonable costs, fees and expenses incurred by Administrative Agent and its counsel with respect to this Amendment and the documents and transactions contemplated hereby shall be for the account of Borrowers. The Borrowers hereby agree to pay the reasonable fees, cost and expenses of Administrative Agent's counsel in connection with this Amendment concurrently with or promptly but in no event later than 30 days after submission of an invoice with respect to such reasonable fees, costs and expenses.
4.2
Fees and Expenses.
     Section and subsection headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose or be given any substantive effect.
4.3
Headings
.
     This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument; signature pages may be detached from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to the same document. This Amendment shall become effective upon the execution of a counterpart hereof by each Borrower and Administrative Agent, and receipt by Borrowers and Administrative Agent of written, facsimile, electronic image scan (e.g., "PDF" or "tif") transmission or telephonic notification of such execution and authorization of delivery thereof.
4.4
Counterparts; Effectiveness
.
     . This Amendment embodies the entire agreement and understanding among the parties with respect to this amendment to the Amended Agreement, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating thereto.
4.5
Entire Agreement
     . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of California.
4.6
Governing Law
Section 5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CONSENT
     Guarantors are party to that certain Continuing Guaranty (as amended from time to time), dated as of November 2, 2004, pursuant to which Guarantors have guarantied the Obligations. Pledgors are party to that certain Security Agreement (Securities) made by Borrowers (as amended from time to time) and Security Agreement (Securities) made by certain other Pledgors (as amended from time to time), dated as of November 2, 2004, pursuant to which Pledgors have pledged the Collateral as security for the Indebtedness (as defined in the applicable Pledge Agreement).
5.1
 
     Each Guarantor and each Pledgor hereby acknowledges that it has reviewed the terms and provisions of the Amended Agreement and this Amendment and consents to the amendment of the Credit Agreement effected pursuant to this Amendment. Each Guarantor hereby confirms that each Guaranty to which it is a party or otherwise bound, and each Pledgor hereby confirms that the Pledge Agreement to which it is a party or otherwise bound, will continue to guaranty or secure, as the case may be, to the fullest extent possible the payment and performance of all of the "Guaranteed Obligations" (as defined in the applicable Guaranty) or the "Indebtedness" (as defined in the applicable Pledge Agreement), as the case may be, including without limitation the payment and performance of all such "Guaranteed Obligations" or "Indebtedness", as the case may be, with respect to the Obligations of Borrowers now or hereafter existing under or in respect of the Amended Agreement and the Notes defined therein.
5.2
     Each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that any Guaranty to which it is a party or otherwise bound, and each Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that the Pledge Agreement to which it is a party or otherwise bound, shall continue in full force and effect and that all of its obligations thereunder shall be valid and enforceable and shall not be impaired or limited by the execution or effectiveness of this Amendment. Each Guarantor and each Pledgor represents and warrants that all representations and warranties contained in the Guaranty and/or the Pledge Agreement, as the case may be, to which it is a party or otherwise bound are true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of the Eighth Amendment Effective Date to the same extent as though made on and as of that date, except to the extent such representations and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date, in which case they were true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.
5.3
     Each Guarantor and each Pledgor (other than the Borrowers) acknowledges and agrees that (i) notwithstanding the conditions to effectiveness set forth in this Amendment, such Guarantor or such Pledgor, as the case may be, is not required by the terms of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document to consent to the amendments to the Credit Agreement effected pursuant to this Amendment and (ii) nothing in the Amended Agreement, this Amendment or any other Loan Document shall be deemed to require the consent of such Guarantor or such Pledgor to any future amendments to the Amended Agreement.
5.4
 
     , the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
PLEDGORS (for purposes of
Section 5
only):
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUARANTORS (for purposes of
Section 5
only):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


