FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20110110200355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 10, 2011, Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") announced the resignation of Timothy J. Beaudin, President and Chief Operating Officer of Aimco and AIMCO-GP, Inc., which is the general partner of AIMCO Properties, L.P. A copy of the related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Aimco Press Release dated January 10, 2011
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Investor Relations (303) 691-4350 Investor@aimco.com Elizabeth Coalson Vice President Investor Relations (303) 691-4327
DENVER, CO  January 10, 2011
Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE: AIV), announced today the promotions of veteran team members Keith Kimmel, Dan Matula and John Bezzant, effective immediately.
Kimmel, who joined Aimco in 2002, will be promoted to Executive Vice President, Property Operations after serving as the area vice president for the West for nearly three years. Matula, who joined Aimco in 2006 and has had responsibility for redevelopment and construction services, will be promoted to Executive Vice President, Redevelopment and Construction Services. Bezzant, who also joined Aimco in 2006 and has held roles in redevelopment and transactions, will become Executive Vice President of Transactions, an area which he has led as senior vice president since late 2009. Kimmel, Matula and Bezzant will report directly to Aimco's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine.
Aimco also announced that Tim Beaudin, Aimco's President and Chief Operating Officer, is resigning his positions effective immediately and will remain with the company through March 1, 2011, to provide for an orderly transition.
Mr. Considine, said, "I look forward to the expanded roles for Keith, Dan and John. Each has been an integral part of the Aimco team for many years  and each played a key role in helping Aimco reach the success we had in 2010. I look forward to their continued success in 2011 and beyond."
"I want to express my appreciation and gratitude to Tim for his many contributions over the years," said Mr. Considine. "He is an exceptional leader and has been a valued partner since joining Aimco in 2005. Aimco is better for Tim's numerous accomplishments in redevelopment, operations, portfolio quality, transactions and leadership development." Mr. Considine continued, "Tim has a terrific opportunity to run a new industrial platform for Blackstone  which includes a number of assets which Tim previously acquired for and operated during his days at Catellus. I wish him every success in his new endeavors."
Mr. Beaudin said, "The Blackstone opportunity is one I couldn't pass on  but I am confident that I have left Aimco's operations, portfolio, organization and team in good shape and in good hands. I look forward to Aimco's continued success in the years to come."
Aimco is a real estate investment trust that is focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in the 20 largest markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country's largest owners and operators of both conventional and affordable apartments, with 801 communities serving approximately 500,000 residents in 43 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com


