FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20110729113713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated July 29, 2011, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its second quarter 2011 earnings conference call on July 29, 2011, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast by clicking on the Webcast link on Aimco's website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-843-0890, or 412-317-9250 for international callers, and using passcode 8254791. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/Overview.aspx
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay until 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on August 8, 2011, by dialing 877-344-7529, or 412-317-0088 for international callers, and using passcode 10001841 or you may access the audiocast replay by clicking the Webcasts link on Aimco's website at Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at and click on Quarterly Earnings Releases under the Investor Information menu. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx.
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/QEarnRelease.aspx
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 29, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Aimco Reports Second Quarter 2011 Results: Rental Rates Accelerating, Pro forma FFO Ex-Items Up 16% Year-to-Date
 Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE: AIV) announced today its second quarter and year-to-date 2011 results.
Denver, Colorado, July 29, 2011
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Aimco's business improved significantly during the second quarter with rising rental rates, continued high average daily occupancy and sustainable expense reductions. We begin the second half of the year in a strong position to generate competitive earnings growth through solid operating performance, further reductions in off-site costs, lower cost of leverage and accretive investment activities."
Chief Financial Officer Ernie Freedman adds: "Aimco's second quarter Pro forma FFO of $0.27 per share exceeded the upper end of Aimco's guidance range by $0.05 per share, primarily as a result of strong operating results. Total Same Store NOI increased 5.1% compared to second quarter 2010, with revenue growth of 2.6% and sustainable expense reductions of 1.4%. Rental rate increases accelerated during the quarter with 5.1% growth in new lease rates and renewal rate increases of 3.6%. Based on results year-to-date, we expect Total Same Store NOI growth relative to 2010 to be in a range of 5.0% to 6.0% and, accordingly, we are increasing Pro forma FFO guidance to $1.45 to $1.51 per share, or an increase of $0.09 per share at the mid-point."
Financial Results
Pro forma FFO, Excluding One-Time Items, up 16% Year-to-Date*
 Net loss attributable to Aimco common stockholders for the quarter was $33.2 million, compared to net loss of $18.0 million for second quarter 2010. Second quarter 2011 net loss increased as compared to second quarter 2010 primarily due to: an increase of $20.5 million in interest expense, substantially all of which is related to debt prepayment penalties and write-off of deferred loan costs; a decrease of $11.6 million in income from discontinued operations as a result of 2010 and 2011 property sales; and a decrease of $9.7 million in other income, primarily as a result of $7.6 million of legal settlements, net of tax, which occurred during second quarter 2010 that did not recur in second quarter 2011. These decreases in income were offset by an increase of $12.4 million in property net operating income, a decrease of $8.7 million in depreciation and amortization and a decrease of $2.8 million in general and administrative expenses.
Net loss
 
 FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure defined in the glossary in Aimco's Supplemental Information (the Glossary). FFO calculated in accordance with the definition prescribed by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) was $32.3 million, or $0.27 per share, compared to $46.9 million, or $0.40 per share, in second quarter 2010. Pro forma FFO, which represents FFO as prescribed by NAREIT but excludes operating real estate impairment losses and preferred equity redemption related amounts, was $32.3 million, or $0.27 per share, compared to $47.8 million, or $0.41 per share, in second quarter 2010. Second quarter 2011 Pro forma FFO of $0.27 per share, including prepayment penalties and write off of deferred loan costs totaling $0.15 per share, was $0.05 per share above the upper end of Aimco's guidance range, primarily as a result of better than expected property operating results.
Funds from Operations
Property Operations
Property operating results discussed below, including property net operating income (NOI), relate to properties that Aimco owns and manages, and that are classified within continuing operations. To ensure comparability between periods, results are based on Aimco's current period ownership. See the Glossary for property definitions and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and Schedules 1 and 2 in the Supplemental Information for financial and statistical information for these portfolios.
 Aimco's property operations consist primarily of Conventional, with some Affordable, real estate operations. Conventional real estate operations relate to Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities and include Same Store Properties, Redevelopment Properties, and Other Properties.
Diversified Operating Portfolio
Affordable real estate operations consist of Aimco's portfolio of properties with rents that are generally paid, in whole or in part, by a government agency. Affordable properties tend to have more stable rents and higher occupancy than Conventional properties due to government rent payments and thus are less affected by market fluctuations.
Total Same Store NOI Up 6.8% Year-to-Date
During second quarter 2011, total revenue across Aimco's portfolio increased 2.6% when compared to second quarter 2010 while expenses declined 1.5%. Portfolio-wide expense savings were primarily the result of decreases in insurance expense, personnel expenses, turnover costs and marketing. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in real estate taxes as a result of successful appeals recognized in second quarter 2010 that did not recur in second quarter 2011.
 
 In second quarter 2011, the Conventional Same Store portfolio included 171 communities with 58,459 units, in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 94%.
Conventional Same Store Results
Conventional Same Store NOI Growth Exceeds Upper End of Guidance Range
Rental Rates Accelerating
Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified as either a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or a renewal of an existing lease. Average increases in Conventional Same-Store new lease and renewal rental rates for the first half of 2011 are as follows:
Refer to Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for additional details on Conventional Same Store operating results.
 In second quarter 2011, the Affordable Same Store portfolio included 147 communities with 18,478 units, in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 69%. For second quarter 2011, average month-end occupancy for the affordable portfolio was 97.6%, an increase of 0.1% from second quarter 2010, while average rent per unit increased 4.0% from $810 to $842 per unit.
Affordable Same Store Results
Portfolio
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality Conventional apartment communities located in the 20 largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value, with a target capital allocation of 10% to Affordable apartment communities.
Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance information and analysis. Aimco defines A-quality assets as those with rents greater than 125% of local market average, B-quality assets as those with rents 90% to 125% of local market average and C-quality assets as those with rents less than 90% of local market average. For first quarter 2011, the most recent period for which REIS information is available, Aimco's Conventional Property rents averaged 99% of local market average rents.
For second quarter 2011, average rents for the Conventional portfolio were $1,079 per unit, a 3.8% increase compared to second quarter 2010, as a result of year-over-year rent growth and the sale of Conventional properties during 2010 and 2011 with rents substantially lower than those of the retained portfolio.
 
Aimco's geographic allocation strategy focuses on the 20 largest U.S. markets. Aimco believes these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. These target markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. In executing this strategy, Aimco expects to reduce its investment in markets outside the 20 largest markets and to increase its investment in the 20 largest markets through redevelopment, acquisitions and increasing ownership in properties Aimco already owns through limited partnerships. During second quarter 2011, net operating income generated by Conventional properties located in Aimco's target markets accounted for 85% of total Conventional Property net operating income, an increase of 2% compared to second quarter 2010.
In second quarter 2011, Aimco sold seven Conventional properties and seven Affordable properties with 1,741 and 646 units, respectively, for $109.8 million in gross proceeds. Aimco's share of net proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $31.3 million.
See Supplemental Schedules 7a and 7b for additional details regarding Aimco's Conventional portfolio quality and capital allocation, and Supplemental Schedule 8 for additional details on disposition activity.
Balance Sheet and Liquidity
Components of Aimco Leverage
See Supplemental Schedule 4 for additional details about Aimco's non-recourse property debt and Supplemental Schedule 5 for information related to Aimco's preferred securities.
 As Aimco announced on May 20, 2011, the company completed a series of financing transactions that repaid 19 non-recourse property loans scheduled to mature between 2012 and 2016 with proceeds from new long-term, fixed-rate, non-recourse property loans (the "new loans"). The new loans, which total $673.8 million, were closed in three parts; $218.6 million closed in December 2010, $120.6 million closed in March 2011, and $334.6 million closed in May 2011. Each of the new loans has a ten-year term, and a 30-year amortization schedule.
Property Debt Refinancing and Securitization
In June 2011, Freddie Mac securitized the new loans, creating its first multifamily private label securitization trust. The trust holds only the new Aimco loans referenced above and trades under the label FREMF 2011-KAIV.
As part of the securitization transaction, Aimco purchased for $51.5 million the first loss position and two mezzanine positions from the securitization trust, effectively reducing Aimco's debt obligation. The face value of the notes is $100.9 million and the $49.4 million discount will be accreted into interest income over the ten-year term of the notes.
The weighted average interest rate on the 19 new loans is 5.49% while the net effective cost of the new loans is 5.19%, taking into account the weighted average interest rate on the new loans, transaction costs and interest income Aimco will earn from the securitization trust notes.
 
 Aimco's share of property debt maturities during the balance of 2011 through 2014 totals $883.7 million, or approximately 18% of total property debt outstanding at June 30, 2011. Aimco has secured firm commitments to refinance $151.3 million, or approximately 17%, of maturities through 2014 as follows:
Property Debt Financing Commitments
 Aimco's recourse debt at June 30, 2011, was limited to its revolving credit facility, which Aimco uses for working capital purposes and to secure letters of credit. At the end of second quarter, Aimco had $21.5 million outstanding on its revolving credit facility and available capacity was $251.5 million, net of $27.0 million of letters of credit backed by the facility.
Revolving Credit Facility
 Aimco's second quarter EBITDA Coverage of Interest and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends ratios were 2.12:1 and 1.73:1, compared to first quarter 2011 ratios of 2.11:1 and 1.72:1, respectively. Separately, in connection with its revolving credit facility, Aimco is subject to Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants, as defined in the Glossary. For second quarter 2011, Aimco's Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage ratios were 1.59:1 and 1.35:1, compared to covenants in place during the quarter of 1.40:1 and 1.20:1, respectively, and first quarter 2011 ratios of 1.58:1 and 1.34:1. Aimco expects to remain in compliance with these covenants.
Coverage Ratios
 From April 1, 2011, through the date of this release, Aimco has issued 1.7 million shares under its At-the-Market (ATM) offering program at a weighted average price of $25.62 per share, generating gross proceeds of $42.9 million. The proceeds from the ATM offering were used primarily to match-fund investment activities during the period and to fund prepayment penalties described in this release. From January 1, 2011, through the date of this release, Aimco has issued 2.8 million shares under its ATM offering program at a weighted average price of $24.69 per share, generating gross proceeds of $70.6 million.
Equity Activity
As previously announced, on July 26, 2011, Aimco priced an underwritten public offering of 800,000 shares of its 7.00% Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock at $24.25 per share, equating to a yield of 7.216%, for gross proceeds to Aimco of approximately $19.4 million. Aimco intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of approximately $18.5 million to partially redeem outstanding preferred securities with a higher dividend rate. Aimco expects to close the sale of the Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock, subject to customary conditions, on or about July 29, 2011.
The shares of Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock have a liquidation preference of $25 per share, have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund and are redeemable at par plus accumulated, accrued and unpaid dividends at Aimco's option at any time after July 29, 2016.
 Aimco's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.12 per share on its Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The dividend is payable August 31, 2011 to shareholders of record on August 19, 2011.
Dividend
 
2011 Outlook
Earnings Conference Call
Live webcast and replay:
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/news.aspx
Upcoming Property Tours
Management will be hosting property tours in Southern California on October 4th and 5th. Additional details will be communicated in the coming months.
Supplemental Information
The full text of this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release are available on Aimco's website at .
www.aimco.com/CorporateInformation/About/Financial/QEarnRelease.aspx
 
Glossary & Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial and Operating Measures
Financial and operating measures found in this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. These measures are defined in the glossary in the Supplemental Information and, where appropriate, reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures.
Forward-looking Statements
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of third quarter and full year 2011 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rental rates and property operating results. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; insurance risk, including the cost of insurance; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.
Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust that is focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in the 20 largest markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country's largest owners and operators of both conventional and affordable apartments, with 607 communities serving approximately 500,000 residents in 38 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at www.aimco.com.
Contact
Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations Investor Relations 303-691-4350, Investor@Aimco.com
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
Notes
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (b) (continued)
Notes
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Portfolio Summary As of June 30, 2011 (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
One measure of stockholder value is Net Asset Value (NAV), which is the estimated fair value of assets, net of debt and preferred equity. The information provided below is intended to assist users of Aimco's financial information in making their own estimates of Aimco's NAV. See the following page for notes to the supplemental information provided below.
Trailing Twelve Month Net Operating Income Data
Proportionate Balance Sheet Data As of June 30, 2011
 
Supplemental Schedule 3 (continued)
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
Property Debt Balances and Characteristics
Aimco Share Property Debt
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 (continued)
Year-to-Date Property Loan Closings
Debt Ratios
Credit Ratings
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Share Data
(in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
Common Stock, Partnership Units and Equivalents
Notes
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a) Conventional Same Store Operating Results Second Quarter 2011 Compared to Second Quarter 2010 (in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Conventional Same Store Operating Results Second Quarter 2011 Compared to First Quarter 2011 (in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c) Conventional Same Store Operating Results Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(a) Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market Second Quarter 2011 Compared to Second Quarter 2010 (unaudited)
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(b) Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market First Quarter 2011 Market Information (unaudited)
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality apartment communities located in the 20 largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value, with a target allocation to Conventional Properties of 90% or more. Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, with A-quality assets earning rents greater than 125% of local market average, B-quality assets earning rents 90% to 125% of local market average and C-quality assets earning rents less than 90% of local market average. Aimco's geographic allocation strategy focuses on the 20 largest U.S. markets, with market quality measured in part based on long-term growth characteristics.
The following schedule illustrates Aimco's Conventional Property portfolio quality and market growth projections based on 1Q 2011 data, as this is the most recent period for which third-party data is available.
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Sales and Acquisition Activity (dollars in millions, except average rent) (unaudited)
Second Quarter 2011 Dispositions
2011 Year-to-Date Dispositions
2011 Year-to-Date Acquisitions
During 2011, Aimco acquired the remaining noncontrolling limited partnership interests in six consolidated real estate partnerships that own nine properties and in which Aimco affiliates serve as general partner for a total cost of $13.6 million. The gross real estate value of the properties corresponding to the interests Aimco acquired totaled $84.9 million.
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Additions (in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital additions are classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), property upgrades, redevelopment or casualties. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capital additions are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
Amounts below represent actual additions related to residential properties that are owned and managed by Aimco at the end of the period. These amounts include consolidated and unconsolidated properties and are not adjusted for Aimco's ownership interest in such properties. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
See the Glossary for a reconciliation of these amounts to GAAP capital additions.
 
GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Aimco's definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial and operating measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. These non-GAAP financial and operating measures should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net income or any other GAAP measurement of performance and should not be considered an alternative measure of liquidity.
Properties that have been acquired during the twelve months prior to the current quarter-end that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during the current period and each period for which comparable results are presented.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES:
AFFO is Pro forma FFO, as defined below, less Capital Replacement additions, also defined below, and adjusted for the Aimco Operating Partnership's share of such Capital Replacements. Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO):
Affordable Properties benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms, tax credit equity, or rental assistance payments to the property owners. Under these programs, rent adjustments are made in accordance with property-specific contracts between Aimco and HUD, with rent increases generally based on an adjustment factor set by HUD annually. Aimco targets an investment in Affordable Properties of 10% or less of Net Asset Value, which serves to offset the volatility of our Conventional portfolio; provide revenue growth that over time is similar to that of Conventional Properties; expand our investment opportunities; and provide helpful positioning with government bodies, benefiting Aimco's business overall.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, is the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure. Aimco owns approximately 93% of the common partnership units of the Aimco Operating Partnership.
AIMCO OPERATING PARTNERSHIP:
Non-GAAP measures representing Aimco's share of financial information discussed in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information. Aimco's proportionate share of financial information includes Aimco's share of unconsolidated real estate partnerships and excludes noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. Proportionate reporting benefits the users of Aimco's financial information by providing the amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities attributable only to Aimco stockholders. Aimco also refers to this measure as "Aimco's Share" of financial information. See Supplemental Schedules 1, 3 and 4 for reconciliation of Aimco's proportionate share of financial results to Aimco's consolidated financial statements.
AIMCO PROPORTIONATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
 
CAPITAL ADDITIONS DEFINITIONS AND RECONCILIATION
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI additions include all non-redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): Unlike CI additions, CR additions do not increase the useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR additions are deducted in the calculation of AFFO.
CASUALTY CAPITAL ADDITIONS: Capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers net of deductibles associated with each loss.
Supplemental Schedule 9 contains capital additions information related to (1) residential properties that Aimco owns and manages at the end of the period, (2) properties that are consolidated in Aimco's GAAP financial statements, and (3) properties that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in Aimco's GAAP financial statements. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
Aimco believes the capital addition detail provided in Supplemental Schedule 9 provides an enhanced understanding of capital additions related to our primary business of owning and operating apartment communities. A reconciliation of capital additions presented on Supplemental Schedule 9 to Aimco's consolidated GAAP information is presented below.
Conventional Properties represent Aimco's portfolio of market-rate apartment communities. Aimco focuses on owning and operating apartment communities with rents that are 100% to 125% of local market average rents and concentrates its investment in the 20 largest apartment markets in the United States, as measured by apartment value. Aimco targets an investment in Conventional Properties of 90% or more of Net Asset Value.
CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Aimco's adjusted total earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (which is reduced by certain capital expenditure reserves) to (b) the actual debt service, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO:
Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share. Effective Units may be used to analyze Aimco's proportionate financial measures on a per-unit basis.
EFFECTIVE UNITS:
 
EBITDA is equal to Aimco's adjusted total earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization as defined in Aimco's credit agreement capital addition reserves provided for in Aimco's credit agreement. EBITDA is the numerator used in Aimco's calculation of EBITDA Coverage of Interest Ratio and EBITDA Coverage of Preferred Dividends and Interest Ratio.
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA):
before
The ratio of (a) Aimco's EBITDA to (b) total interest expense charges, as provided for in Aimco's credit agreement, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation. This ratio is similar to Aimco's Debt Service Coverage Ratio with the exception that Aimco's EBITDA Coverage of Interest Ratio does not include capital addition reserves in the numerator and does not include debt amortization or capitalized interest in the denominator, while Debt Service Coverage Ratio does include these items. Aimco's credit agreement does not contain any compliance thresholds for the EBITDA Coverage of Interest Ratio; however, Aimco management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST RATIO:
The ratio of (a) Aimco's EBITDA to (b) the sum of total interest expense and dividends/distributions on preferred shares/units, as provided for in Aimco's credit agreement, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation. This ratio is similar to Aimco's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio with the exception that Aimco's EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends Ratio does not include capital addition reserves in the numerator and does not include debt amortization or capitalized interest in the denominator, while Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio does include these items. Aimco's credit agreement does not contain any compliance thresholds for the EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends Ratio; however, Aimco management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS RATIO:
As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Aimco's adjusted total earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (which is reduced by certain capital expenditure reserves) to (b) fixed charges, which represents the sum of total interest expense, debt amortization and dividends/distributions on preferred shares/units, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO:
Aimco provides property management and/or asset management services for a portfolio of properties, primarily pursuant to long-term arrangements with affiliated parties. In certain cases, Aimco may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund.
FEE MANAGED PROPERTIES:
FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO):
In addition to FFO, Aimco uses to measure performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO as defined above, excluding operating real estate impairments and preferred stock redemption related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests). Both operating real estate impairment losses and preferred stock redemption related amounts are recurring items that affect Aimco's operating results. Operating real estate impairment losses, net of related income tax benefits and noncontrolling interests, are excluded from Pro forma FFO because Aimco believes the inclusion of such losses in FFO is inconsistent with the treatment of gains on the disposition of operating real estate, which are not included in FFO. Aimco excludes preferred redemption related amounts (gains or losses) from Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of operating results.
PRO FORMA FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (Pro forma FFO)
 
FFO and Pro forma FFO are helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because they capture features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP is reconciled to FFO and Pro forma FFO as presented on Supplemental Schedule 1 below.
Affordable Properties that do not meet the Same Store property definition because (1) the property is under redevelopment, (2) the property is not managed by Aimco, and/or (3) Aimco's ownership in the property is less than 10%.
OTHER AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
Conventional Properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties and properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities.
OTHER CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal).
OTHER EXPENSES, NET:
NOI is defined by Aimco as total property rental and other property revenues less direct property operating expenses, including real estate taxes. NOI does not include: property management revenues, primarily from affiliates; casualties; off-site property management expenses; depreciation; or interest expense. NOI is helpful because it helps both investors and management to understand the operating performance of real estate excluding costs associated with decisions about acquisition pricing, overhead allocations and financing arrangements. NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of real estate. A reconciliation of NOI as presented in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information to Aimco's consolidated GAAP amounts is provided on the following pages.
PROPERTY NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI):
 
Reconciliation of Propertionate Property NOI Amounts in Supplemental Schedule 1(a) to Proportionate Property NOI Amounts Included in Aimco's Earnings Release and Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Second Quarter 2011 Compared to Second Quarter 2010 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Reconciliation of GAAP to Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Proportionate Conventional Same Store NOI Amounts Second Quarter 2011 (in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Reconciliation of Propertionate Property NOI Amounts in Supplemental Schedule 1(b) to Proportionate Property NOI Amounts Included in Aimco's Earnings Release and Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands) (unaudited)
Reconciliation of GAAP to Supplemental Schedule 3 Trailing Twelve Month (TTM) Proportionate NOI Amounts (in thousands) (unaudited)
Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio. Redevelopment properties are classified as either Conventional or Affordable. Aimco combines Affordable Redevelopment Properties with Other Affordable Properties for financial reporting purposes within its Supplemental Schedules 1 and 2.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES:
Same Store properties are those properties (1) that are managed by Aimco, (2) in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10%, and (3) that have reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy during the current period and each period for which comparable results are presented. Same Store properties are classified as either Conventional or Affordable and properties classified in the consolidated financial statements as held for sale are not included in Same Store. To ensure comparability between periods, the proportionate Conventional Same Store information shown on Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c is based on Aimco's current period ownership.
SAME STORE PROPERTIES:


