FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20120208104903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated February 8, 2012, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call on February 8, 2012, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast accessed through Aimco's website at . Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-843-0890, or 412-317-9250 for international callers, and using passcode 9327149. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay until 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on February 23, 2012, by dialing 877-344-7529, or 412-317-0088 for international callers, and using passcode 10007657 or you may access the audiocast replay on Aimco's website at . Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at . The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
www.aimco.com/investors/financial-reports/quarterly-earning-reports
 
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 8, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aimco Reports Fourth Quarter 2011 Results, 50% Increase in Dividend
 Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE: AIV) announced today its fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
Denver, Colorado, February 8, 2012
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "2011 was a good year, and we expect 2012 will be even better. Aimco starts the year with high occupancy, low turnover and steady renewal lease rate growth. Our portfolio is increasingly concentrated in better markets, with higher rents and superior growth rates. In the coming twenty-four months, through redevelopment of three currently vacant properties, we will deliver more than 1,200 A-quality units in Coastal California. Our balance sheet is strong and we continue to reduce leverage and our cost of capital. We are off to a good start in 2012."
Chief Financial Officer Ernie Freedman adds: "Fourth quarter Pro forma FFO of $0.42 per share exceeded the midpoint of our guidance range by $0.01 per share, primarily as a result of better than expected operating results. We expect 2012 FFO to be in a range from $1.72 to $1.82 per share, or approximately 8% higher than 2011, and we expect AFFO to increase even more, up 21%. First quarter 2012 FFO is projected to be $0.33 to $0.37 per share."
Financial Results
2011 Pro forma FFO, Excluding One-Time Items, Up 11%, AFFO Up 5%*
 
 
 Net loss attributable to Aimco common stockholders for the quarter was $23.4 million, compared to net loss of $38.4 million for fourth quarter 2010. Fourth quarter 2011 net loss decreased as compared to fourth quarter 2010 primarily due to: an increase in net operating income of our properties included in continuing operations, reflecting improved operations; an increase in income from discontinued operations, net of noncontrolling interest allocations, primarily due to an increase in gains on dispositions of consolidated real estate partially offset by losses on dispositions of unconsolidated real estate; and a decrease in interest expense.
Net loss
 FFO and AFFO are non-GAAP financial measures and are defined in the glossary in Aimco's Supplemental Information (the Glossary). FFO is computed in accordance with the framework prescribed by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT). In October 2011, NAREIT revised its definition of FFO to exclude operating real estate impairments effective fourth quarter 2011. All prior period FFO results included in this press release have been restated accordingly. Fourth quarter 2011 FFO was $52.2 million, or $0.43 per share, compared to $41.4 million, or $0.35 per share, in fourth quarter 2010. Pro forma FFO, which represents FFO as prescribed by NAREIT but excludes preferred equity redemption related amounts, was $50.4 million, or $0.42 per share, compared to $45.3 million, or $0.39 per share, in fourth quarter 2010, an increase of 8%. AFFO, which represents Pro forma FFO after the deduction of Capital Replacements, was $24.3 million, or $0.20 per share, compared to $29.6 million, or $0.25 per share, in fourth quarter 2010.
Funds from Operations
 
 
Property Operations
Property operating results discussed below, including property net operating income (NOI), relate to properties that Aimco owns and manages, and that are classified within continuing operations. To ensure comparability between periods, results are based on Aimco's current period ownership. See the Glossary for property definitions and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and Schedules 1 and 2 in the Supplemental Information for financial and statistical information for these portfolios.
 Aimco's property operations consist primarily of Conventional, with some Affordable, real estate operations. Conventional real estate operations relate to Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities and include Same Store Properties, Redevelopment Properties, Acquisition Properties and Other Properties.
Diversified Operating Portfolio
Affordable real estate operations consist of Aimco's portfolio of properties with rents that are generally paid, in whole or in part, by a government agency. Affordable properties tend to have more stable rents and higher occupancy than Conventional properties due to government rent payments and thus are less affected by market fluctuations.
2011 Total Same-Store NOI Up 5.9%
 
 
 In fourth quarter 2011, the Conventional Same Store portfolio included 161 communities with 56,731 units, in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 94%.
Conventional Same Store Results
 
 
 
Rental Rates Rising
Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified as either a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or a renewal of an existing lease. Full year 2011 results by quarter are as follows:
 
Refer to Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for additional details on Conventional Same Store operating results.
 In fourth quarter 2011, the Affordable Same Store portfolio included 122 communities with 15,639 units, in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 73%. For fourth quarter 2011, average month-end occupancy for the Affordable portfolio was 97.7%, a decrease of 0.2% from fourth quarter 2010, while average rent per unit increased 3.0% from $862 to $888 per unit.
Affordable Same Store Results
Portfolio
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality Conventional apartment communities located in the largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value. Aimco believes these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. These markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include several Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. In executing Aimco's portfolio strategy, the company expects to reduce its investment in non-target markets and to increase its investment in target markets through redevelopment, acquisitions and increasing ownership in properties Aimco already owns through limited partnerships.
During fourth quarter 2011, net operating income generated by Conventional properties located in Aimco's target markets accounted for 86% of total Conventional Property net operating income, an increase of 2% compared to fourth quarter 2010.
Conventional Property Rents Up 9% to $1,143
Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance information and analysis. Aimco defines A-quality assets as those with rents greater than 125% of local market average, B-quality assets as those with rents 90% to 125% of local market average and C-quality assets as those with rents less than 90% of local market average. For third quarter 2011, the most recent period for which REIS information is available, Aimco's Conventional Property rents averaged approximately 101% of local market average rents.
For fourth quarter 2011, average rents for the Conventional portfolio were $1,143 per unit, a 9.0% increase compared to fourth quarter 2010, as a result of year-over-year rent growth and the sale of Conventional properties during 2010 and 2011 with rents substantially lower than those of the retained portfolio.
 In fourth quarter 2011, Aimco sold seven Conventional properties and 20 Affordable properties with 1,947 and 2,185 units, respectively, for $180.3 million in gross proceeds. Aimco's share of net proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $71.9 million.
Dispositions
 
 
See Supplemental Schedules 7a and 7b for additional details regarding Aimco's Conventional portfolio quality and capital allocation, and Supplemental Schedule 8 for information related to acquisition and disposition activity.
 As of December 31, 2011, Aimco asset managed for a fee a portfolio of 147 properties with 10,184 units. During first quarter 2012, Aimco entered into an agreement to transfer asset management of this portfolio effective February 6, 2012, and to sell its minority interest in the portfolio to the new asset manager upon satisfaction of certain conditions and regulatory approvals. Aimco expects the sale of the asset-managed portfolio to close later this year, at which time Aimco will have liquidated all of its legacy asset management business.
Agreement to Sell Asset-Managed Portfolio
Balance Sheet and Liquidity
Components of Aimco Leverage
 
See Supplemental Schedule 4 for additional details about Aimco's non-recourse property debt and Supplemental Schedule 5 for information related to Aimco's preferred securities.
 Aimco's recourse debt at December 31, 2011, was limited to its revolving credit facility, which Aimco uses for working capital purposes and to secure letters of credit. As announced in fourth quarter 2011, Aimco closed on a new $500 million revolving credit facility to replace its then-existing $300 million facility. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest based on a pricing grid determined by leverage (currently either LIBOR plus 2.75% or, at Aimco's option, a base rate equal to the Prime rate plus a spread of 1.50%). The facility matures in December 2016, inclusive of two-one-year extension options and the Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants are unchanged from those associated with the previous facility. At the end of fourth quarter, Aimco had no outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility and available capacity was $469.5 million, net of $30.5 million of letters of credit backed by the facility.
Revolving Credit Facility
 Aimco's fourth quarter EBITDA Coverage of Interest and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends ratios were 2.18:1 and 1.78:1, compared to fourth quarter 2010 ratios of 2.07:1 and 1.68:1, respectively. Separately, in connection with its revolving credit facility, Aimco is subject to Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants, as defined in the Glossary. For fourth quarter 2011, Aimco's Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage ratios were 1.61:1 and 1:37.1, compared to covenants in place during the quarter of 1.40:1 and 1:20.1, respectively, and fourth quarter 2010 ratios of 1.57:1 and 1.33:1. In first quarter 2012, the Debt Service Coverage and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants increase to 1.50:1 and 1.30:1, respectively. Aimco expects to remain in compliance with these covenants.
Coverage Ratios
Based on annualized projected fourth quarter 2012 EBITDA, Aimco expects its EBITDA Coverage of Interest and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends ratios to be approximately 2.50:1 and 2.00:1, respectively. Year-end Debt to EBITDA and Debt & Preferred Equity to EBITDA ratios are projected to be approximately 7.5:1 and 9:1, respectively.
 
 
 During fourth quarter 2011, Aimco issued approximately 45,000 shares of Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock through its Class Z Preferred Stock At-the-Market offering program (Class Z ATM) at $24.24 per share, equating to a yield of 7.22%, for gross proceeds to Aimco of approximately $1.1 million. We intend to accumulate the proceeds from further ATM issuances of our Class Z Preferred Stock and use them for further redemptions of outstanding preferred securities with higher rates.
Equity Activity
 Aimco's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share on its Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, which is a 50% increase compared to the $0.12 per share dividend paid for the prior four quarters. The dividend is payable February 29, 2012 to shareholders of record on February 21, 2012. Aimco expects to pay quarterly dividends at the increased rate during 2012.
Dividend
2012 Outlook
 
 
 
Pro forma FFO Reconciliation
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
Live webcast and replay:
www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
Supplemental Information
The full text of this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release are available on Aimco's website
www.aimco.com/investors/financial-reports/quarterly-earning-reports.
Glossary & Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial and Operating Measures
Financial and operating measures found in this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. These measures are defined in the glossary in the Supplemental Information and, where appropriate, reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
Forward-looking Statements
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2012 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rental rates and property operating results. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; insurance risk, including the cost of insurance; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust that is focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in the largest markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country's largest owners and operators of both conventional and affordable apartments, with 518 communities serving approximately 250,000 residents in 36 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at .
www.aimco.com
Contact
Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations
Investor Relations 303-691-4350,
Investor@Aimco.com
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (continued)
Notes to Consolidated Statements of Operations
[1] Income from discontinued operations consists of the following (in thousands):
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (a)
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2010
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (a) (continued)
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2010
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
Notes
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (b)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (b) (continued)
 
 
Notes
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
Portfolio Summary
As of December 31, 2011
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
 
One measure of stockholder value is Net Asset Value (NAV), which is the estimated fair value of assets, net of debt and preferred equity. The information provided below is intended to assist users of Aimco's financial information in making their own estimates of Aimco's NAV. See the following page for notes to the supplemental information provided below.
Trailing Twelve Month Net Operating Income Data
 
Proportionate Balance Sheet Data
As of December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
Net Asset Value Supplemental Information
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferred income and the future earnings associated with the deferred income are excluded from Aimco's internal estimates of NAV. However, amortization of deferred tax credit income is included in net income and, as such, FFO. Projected amortization of deferred tax credit contributions received and to be received is presented below.
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
 
Property Debt Balances and Characteristics
 
 
 
Aimco Share Property Debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 (continued)
 
Year-to-Date Property Loan Closings (Aimco Share)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debt Ratios
 
 
Credit Ratings
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
Share Data
(in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
 
Common Stock, Partnership Units and Equivalents
 
Notes
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Conventional Same Store Operating Results
Fourth Quarter 2011 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2010
(in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
Conventional Same Store Operating Results
Fourth Quarter 2011 Compared to Third Quarter 2011
(in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Conventional Same Store Operating Results
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010
(in thousands, except site and unit data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(a)
Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market
Fourth Quarter 2011 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2010
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(b)
Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market
Third Quarter 2011 Market Information
(unaudited)
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality apartment communities located in the largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value. Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, with A-quality assets earning rents greater than 125% of local market average, B-quality assets earning rents 90% to 125% of local market average and C-quality assets earning rents less than 90% of local market average. Aimco's geographic allocation strategy focuses on the largest U.S. markets, with market quality measured in part based on long-term growth characteristics.
The following schedule illustrates Aimco's Conventional Property portfolio quality and market growth projections based on 3Q 2011 data, as this is the most recent period for which third-party data is available.
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
Property Disposition and Acquisition Activity
(dollars in millions, except average rent) (unaudited)
Fourth Quarter 2011 Dispositions
 
2011 Dispositions
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Acquisitions
Aimco acquired noncontrolling limited partnership interests in 12 consolidated real estate partnerships that own 15 properties and in which Aimco affiliates serve as general partner for a total cost of $22.3 million. The gross estimated fair value of the real estate corresponding to the interests Aimco acquired totaled $112.9 million.
Aimco acquired a vacant, 126-unit property located in San Francisco's Marin County submarket. Aimco intends to redevelop the property, increasing its total investment in the property to approximately $65.0 million upon completion. Additionally, during 2011, Aimco acquired noncontrolling interests (approximately 50%) in entities that own four contigous properties with 142 units located in La Jolla, California (near San Diego).
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
Capital Additions
(in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital additions are classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), property upgrades, redevelopment or casualties. Non-redevelopment and non-casualty capital additions are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
Amounts below represent actual additions related to residential properties that are owned and managed by Aimco at the end of the period. These amounts include consolidated and unconsolidated properties and are not adjusted for Aimco's ownership interest in such properties. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
 
 
 
See the Glossary for a reconciliation of these amounts to GAAP capital additions.
 
 
 
GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL and OPERATING MEASURES
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Aimco's definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial and operating measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. These non-GAAP financial and operating measures should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net income or any other GAAP measurement of performance and should not be considered an alternative measure of liquidity.
Properties that have been acquired during the twelve months prior to the current quarter-end that have not reached a stabilized level of occupancy during the current period and each period for which comparable results are presented.
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES:
AFFO is Pro forma FFO, as defined below, less Capital Replacement additions, also defined below, and adjusted for the Aimco Operating Partnership's share of such Capital Replacements. Similar to FFO, AFFO is helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.
ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO):
Adjusted Interest Expense represents Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense less (i) prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs and (ii) the amount of interest income recognized by Aimco related to its investment in the subordinated tranches in the securitization trust holding only Aimco property debt.
ADJUSTED INTEREST EXPENSE:
Affordable Properties benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms, tax credit equity, or rental assistance payments to the property owners. Under these programs, rent adjustments are made in accordance with property-specific contracts between Aimco and HUD, with rent increases generally based on an adjustment factor set by HUD annually. Aimco targets an investment in Affordable Properties of 10% or less of Net Asset Value, which serves to offset the volatility of our Conventional portfolio; provide revenue growth that over time is similar to that of Conventional Properties; expand our investment opportunities; and provide helpful positioning with government bodies, benefiting Aimco's business overall.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, is the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure. Aimco owns approximately 94% of the common partnership units of the Aimco Operating Partnership.
AIMCO OPERATING PARTNERSHIP:
Non-GAAP measures representing Aimco's share of financial information discussed in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information. Aimco's proportionate share of financial information includes Aimco's share of unconsolidated real estate partnerships and excludes noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. Proportionate reporting benefits the users of Aimco's financial information by providing the amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities attributable only to Aimco stockholders. Aimco also refers to this measure as "Aimco's Share" of financial information. See Supplemental Schedules 1, 3 and 4 for reconciliation of Aimco's proportionate share of financial results to Aimco's consolidated financial statements.
AIMCO PROPORTIONATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
 
 
CAPITAL ADDITIONS DEFINITIONS AND RECONCILIATION
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI additions include all non-redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): Unlike CI additions, CR additions do not increase the useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. They represent the share of additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR additions are deducted in the calculation of AFFO.
CASUALTY CAPITAL ADDITIONS: Capitalized costs incurred in connection with casualty losses and are associated with the restoration of the asset. A portion of the restoration costs is reimbursed by insurance carriers net of deductibles associated with each loss.
Supplemental Schedule 9 contains capital additions information related to (1) residential properties that Aimco owns and manages at the end of the period, (2) properties that are consolidated in Aimco's GAAP financial statements, and (3) properties that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in Aimco's GAAP financial statements. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
 
 
 
Aimco believes the capital addition detail provided in Supplemental Schedule 9 provides an enhanced understanding of capital additions related to our primary business of owning and operating apartment communities. A reconciliation of capital additions presented on Supplemental Schedule 9 to Aimco's consolidated GAAP information is presented below.
 
Conventional Properties represent Aimco's portfolio of market-rate apartment communities. Aimco focuses on owning and operating apartment communities with rents that are 100% to 125% of local market average rents and concentrates its investment in the 20 largest apartment markets in the United States, as measured by apartment value. Aimco targets an investment in Conventional Properties of 90% or more of Net Asset Value.
CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) EBITDA, reduced by certain capital expenditure reserves, to (b) debt service, which represents the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs) and (ii) debt amortization, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO:
Unit count at 100% ownership multiplied by Aimco's ownership share. Effective Units may be used to analyze Aimco's proportionate financial measures on a per-unit basis.
EFFECTIVE UNITS:
 
 
EBITDA is the numerator used in Aimco's calculation of EBITDA Coverage of Interest Ratio and EBITDA Coverage of Preferred Dividends and Interest Ratio. EBITDA is computed by adding to Aimco's Pro forma FFO (a) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization related to non-real estate assets, non-cash stock compensation expense and (b) Preferred Dividends.
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA):
The ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) Adjusted Interest Expense for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation. Aimco's management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST RATIO:
The ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) the sum of Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation. Aimco's management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS RATIO:
As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) EBITDA, reduced by certain capital expenditure reserves, to (b) fixed charges, which represents the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs), (ii) debt amortization and (iii) Preferred Dividends, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO:
Aimco provides property management and/or asset management services for a portfolio of properties, primarily pursuant to long-term arrangements with affiliated parties. In certain cases, Aimco may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the operations of such properties through a partnership syndication or other fund.
FEE MANAGED PROPERTIES:
FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. In October 2011, NAREIT revised its definition of FFO to exclude operating real estate impairments. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper as well as the October 2011 definitional change.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO):
In addition to FFO, Aimco uses to measure performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO as defined above, excluding preferred stock redemption related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests). Preferred stock redemption related amounts are recurring items that affect Aimco's operating results. Aimco excludes preferred redemption related amounts (gains or losses) from Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of operating results.
PRO FORMA FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (Pro forma FFO)
 
 
 
FFO and Pro forma FFO are helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because they capture features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP is reconciled to FFO and Pro forma FFO as presented on Supplemental Schedule 1 below.
 
 
 
Affordable Properties that do not meet the Same Store property definition because (1) the property is under redevelopment, (2) the property is not managed by Aimco, and/or (3) Aimco's ownership in the property is less than 10%.
OTHER AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
Conventional Properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties, non-multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities and properties that have not reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy during the reporting periods, often due to a casualty event.
OTHER CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal).
OTHER EXPENSES, NET:
Preferred dividends include dividends paid with respect to Aimco's Preferred Stock and the Aimco Operating Partnership Preferred Partnership Units for any fiscal period.
PREFERRED DIVIDENDS:
NOI is defined by Aimco as total property rental and other property revenues less direct property operating expenses, including real estate taxes. NOI does not include: property management revenues, primarily from affiliates; casualties; off-site property management expenses; depreciation; or interest expense. NOI is helpful because it helps both investors and management to understand the operating performance of real estate excluding costs associated with decisions about acquisition pricing, overhead allocations and financing arrangements. NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of real estate. A reconciliation of NOI as presented in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information to Aimco's consolidated GAAP amounts is provided below and on the following page.
PROPERTY NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI):
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Propertionate Property NOI Amounts in Supplemental Schedule 1(a) to Proportionate Property NOI Amounts Included in Aimco's
Earnings Release and Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
Fourth Quarter 2011 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2010
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Proportionate Conventional Same Store NOI Amounts
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Propertionate Property NOI Amounts in Supplemental Schedule 1(b) to Proportionate Property NOI Amounts Included in Aimco's Earnings Release and Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or have not been stabilized in occupancy for at least one year as of the earliest period presented, or (2) other significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements (done upon lease expirations), is underway or has been complete for less than one year, as of the earliest period presented. In both cases the properties have been removed from the Same Store portfolio. Redevelopment properties are classified as either Conventional or Affordable. Aimco combines Affordable Redevelopment Properties with Other Affordable Properties for financial reporting purposes within its Supplemental Schedules 1 and 2.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES:
Same Store properties are those properties (1) that are managed by Aimco, (2) in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10%, and (3) that have reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy during the current period and each period for which comparable results are presented. Same Store properties are classified as either Conventional or Affordable and properties classified in the consolidated financial statements as held for sale are not included in Same Store. To ensure comparability between periods, the proportionate Conventional Same Store information shown on Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c is based on Aimco's current period ownership.
SAME STORE PROPERTIES:
 


