FILE:AIV/AIV-8K-20120504083553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
The press release of Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco"), dated May 3, 2012, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith. Aimco will hold its fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call on May 4, 2012, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time. You may join the conference call through an Internet audiocast accessed through Aimco's website at
www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
. Alternatively, you may join the conference call by telephone by dialing 866-843-0890, or 412-317-9250 for international callers, and using passcode 0513860. If you wish to participate, please call approximately five minutes before the conference call is scheduled to begin.
If you are unable to join the live conference call, you may access the replay until 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on May 15, 2012, by dialing 877-344-7529, or 412-317-0088 for international callers, and using passcode 10012590 or you may access the audiocast replay on Aimco's website at
www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
. Please note that the full text of the press release and supplemental schedules are available through Aimco's website at
www.aimco.com/investors/financial-reports/quarterly-earning-reports
. The information contained on Aimco's website is not incorporated by reference herein.
 
The following exhibits are furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 3, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Page
 
 
 
Aimco Reports First Quarter 2012 Results
 Apartment Investment and Management Company ("Aimco") (NYSE: AIV) announced today its first quarter 2012 results.
Denver, Colorado, May 3, 2012
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: "Business is good! We are on track to meet or beat our guidance for 2012 with FFO expected to be up 9% and AFFO up 22% as compared to 2011. More importantly, we are making steady progress on four long-term goals: upgrading our portfolio; increasing our redevelopment activities; reducing leverage; and simplifying our business."
Chief Financial Officer Ernie Freedman adds: "First quarter Pro forma FFO of $0.40 per share exceeded the midpoint of our guidance range by $0.05 per share, primarily as a result of better than expected operating results and offsite cost savings, in part due to outperformance and in part due to timing. We are increasing our full year 2012 FFO guidance from a range of $1.72 to $1.82 per share to a range of $1.76 to $1.84 per share and full year 2012 AFFO guidance from a range of $1.17 to $1.29 per share to a range of $1.21 to $1.31 per share."
Financial Results
 
 Net loss attributable to Aimco common stockholders for the quarter was $10.6 million, compared to net loss of $31.8 million for first quarter 2011. First quarter 2012 net loss decreased as compared to first quarter 2011 primarily due to: an increase in proportionate net operating income of properties included in continuing operations, reflecting improved operations and partnership tenders and mergers; and an increase in income from discontinued operations, net of noncontrolling interest allocations, primarily due to an increase in gains on dispositions of consolidated real estate.
Net loss
 FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are non-GAAP financial measures and are defined in the glossary in Aimco's Supplemental Information (the Glossary). FFO is computed in accordance with the framework prescribed by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT). In October 2011, NAREIT revised its definition of FFO to exclude operating real estate impairments effective fourth quarter 2011. All prior period FFO results included in this press release have been restated accordingly.
Funds from Operations
First quarter 2012 FFO was $48.4 million, or $0.40 per share, compared to $45.8 million, or $0.39 per share, in first quarter 2011. Aimco also reports Pro forma FFO, which represents FFO as prescribed by NAREIT but excludes preferred equity redemption related amounts. During first quarter 2012 and first quarter 2011, Pro forma FFO was equal to FFO as Aimco did not redeem any preferred equity during either period. First quarter Pro forma FFO of $0.40 per share exceeded the midpoint of Aimco's guidance by $0.05 per share, of which $0.03 per share was the result of timing of property operating expenses and offsite costs.
AFFO, which represents Pro forma FFO after the deduction of Capital Replacements, was $35.2 million, or $0.29 per share, compared to $34.3 million, also $0.29 per share, in first quarter 2011.
 
 
Property Operations
Aimco's property operations consist primarily of Conventional real estate operations. Conventional real estate operations relate to Aimco's diversified portfolio of market rate apartment communities and include Same Store Properties, Redevelopment Properties, Acquisition Properties and Other Properties.
Aimco also operates a portfolio of Affordable Properties. Aimco's Affordable real estate operations consist of properties with rents that are generally paid, in whole or in part, by a government agency. Over time, Aimco expects to dispose of these properties and reinvest capital in its Conventional portfolio.
Property operating results discussed below, including property net operating income (NOI), relate to properties that Aimco owns and manages, and that are classified within continuing operations. To ensure comparability between periods, results are based on Aimco's ownership interest as of March 31, 2012. See the Glossary for property definitions and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures.
Total Same-Store NOI Up 6.2% Year-Over-Year
 
 In first quarter 2012, the Conventional Same Store portfolio included 157 communities with 55,747 units.
Conventional Same Store Results
 
 
 
Rental Rates Rising
Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified as either a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or a renewal of an existing lease. Rental rates by month for first quarter 2012 and for the prior four quarters are as follows:
 
 
Refer to Supplemental Schedules 6a through 6c for additional details on Conventional Same Store operating results, including a new schedule detailing year-over-year and sequential operating expense results.
 In first quarter 2012, the Affordable Same Store portfolio included 116 communities with 15,094 units, in which Aimco had a weighted average ownership of 73%. For first quarter 2012, average month-end occupancy for the Affordable portfolio was 98.0%, an increase of 0.1% from first quarter 2011, while average revenue per unit increased 2.8% from $922 to $948 per unit.
Affordable Same Store Results
Portfolio
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality conventional apartment communities located in the largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value. Aimco believes these markets to be deep, relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth characteristics. These markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include several Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. In executing Aimco's portfolio strategy, the company expects to reduce its investment in non-target markets through dispositions and to increase its investment in target markets through redevelopment and acquisitions. During first quarter 2012, net operating income generated by Conventional Properties located in Aimco's target markets accounted for 85% of total Conventional Property net operating income.
Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance information and analysis. Aimco defines asset quality as follows: A-quality assets are those with rents greater than 125% of local market average; B-quality assets are those with rents 90% to 125% of local market average; and C-quality assets are those with rents less than 90% of local market average. For fourth quarter 2011, the most recent period for which REIS information is available, Aimco's Conventional Property rents averaged approximately 102% of local market average rents, up from 101% in third quarter 2011.
Conventional Property Revenue per Unit Up 7.9% to $1,263
For first quarter 2012, Conventional portfolio average revenue per unit was $1,263, a 7.9% increase compared to first quarter 2011, as a result of year-over-year revenue growth of 3.8% and the sale of Conventional Properties during 2011 and 2012 with average revenues per unit substantially lower than those of the retained portfolio.
 
 
Aimco expects fourth quarter 2012 Conventional portfolio revenue per unit to average approximately $1,370, an increase of 9% compared to fourth quarter 2011, with approximately half of the increase generated by market rent growth and half the result of sales of lower-rent properties. Looking forward, Aimco expects its year-end portfolio average revenue per unit to increase at a rate that is approximately 5% greater than annual market rent growth as a result of the sale of the lowest-rated 5% to 10% of its portfolio each year.
 During the first quarter, Aimco acquired for a total cost of $38.5 million noncontrolling limited partnership interests in seven consolidated real estate partnerships that own 13 properties with average revenues per unit of $975. The gross estimated fair value of the real estate corresponding to the interests Aimco acquired totaled $123.6 million and was encumbered by non-recourse property debt.
Acquisitions
During the quarter, Aimco also acquired a 488-unit property located in Phoenix, Arizona for $68.8 million. As part of the transaction, Aimco assumed $29.1 million of non-recourse, fixed rate, amortizing property debt that matures in 2019. Revenues per unit average $1,110, and the property's average rents are approximately 147% of the local market average.
 In first quarter 2012, Aimco sold three Conventional Properties and six Affordable Properties with 908 and 577 units, respectively, for $89.7 million in gross proceeds. Average revenue per unit for the Conventional Properties sold during the quarter was $753, compared to the retained portfolio average of $1,263 per unit. Aimco's share of net sales proceeds after distributions to limited partners, repayment of existing property debt and transaction costs was $35.1 million.
Dispositions
During 2012, Aimco expects to continue to upgrade its portfolio by selling more than 25 Conventional Properties and at least 60 Affordable Properties for $550 to $650 million. Aimco is also considering acceleration of portfolio upgrades by selling in 2012 properties otherwise expected to be sold in 2013 and 2014. If successful, Aimco intends to use the proceeds to redeem high-cost preferred stock and in doing so also accelerate progress to leverage targets. Aimco expects to sell almost all of its Affordable Properties over the next four to five years.
See Supplemental Schedules 7a and 7b for additional details regarding Aimco's Conventional portfolio quality and capital allocation, and Supplemental Schedule 8 for information related to acquisition and disposition activity.
 During the first quarter, Aimco continued its $94.1 million redevelopment of Pacific Bay Vistas, a vacant 308-unit property located in San Bruno, California. First occupancy of the redeveloped units is expected to occur during third quarter 2012. During the quarter, Aimco also began a redevelopment project at The Palazzo at Park La Brea, a 521-unit property located in West Los Angeles. Aimco and its joint venture partner will invest $15.3 million in the property (Aimco share $8.1 million) to upgrade the amenities, including the addition of an exclusive roof-top patio and lounge area, and 115 penthouse units, with deliveries beginning in third quarter 2012.
Redevelopment
As described in Supplemental Schedule 10, during 2012 Aimco expects to invest $125 to $150 million in redevelopment projects at a total of ten properties. Construction is currently underway at five of these properties including: Pacific Bay Vistas and The Palazzo; Lincoln Place in Venice, California; Flamingo South Beach in Miami; and Plantation Gardens in Plantation, Florida. The projects at Flamingo South Beach and Plantation Gardens are expected to be complete by year-end.
During the balance of the 2012, multi-year redevelopment projects are expected to begin at: 2900 on First in Seattle; Elm Creek in Chicago; Park Towne and The Sterling, both located in Center City Philadelphia; and The Preserve at Marin (formerly Madera Vista) in the San Francisco Bay Area. Over the next few years, Aimco expects to invest a total of $400 million in these ten projects and, based on un-trended rents, generate average current returns greater than 7% and average Free Cash Flow Internal Rates of Return in excess of 10%.
 
 
Balance Sheet and Liquidity
Components of Aimco Leverage
 
 Aimco's recourse debt at March 31, 2012, was limited to its revolving credit facility, which Aimco uses for working capital purposes and to secure letters of credit. At the end of first quarter, Aimco had $67.4 million outstanding on its revolving credit facility and available capacity was $402.1 million, net of $30.5 million of letters of credit backed by the facility.
Revolving Credit Facility
 In measuring leverage, Aimco focuses on four key metrics: Debt to EBITDA; Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA; EBITDA Coverage of Interest; and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends. See the Glossary for definitions of these metrics.
Debt
Ratios
 
Aimco's leverage targets are: Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA of less than 7.0x; and EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends of greater than 2.5x. Aimco expects to achieve its leverage targets over the next three years through earnings growth generated by the current portfolio, earn-in of income from redevelopment properties and reduction of debt by regularly scheduled property debt amortization. Leverage will continue to be comprised of non-recourse, long-term, fixed rate, amortizing property debt and perpetual preferred stock.
Aimco is also considering acceleration of portfolio upgrades and progress to leverage targets by selling in 2012 properties otherwise expected to be sold in 2013 and 2014, and using the proceeds to redeem high-cost preferred stock.
Separately, in connection with its revolving credit facility, Aimco is subject to Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage covenants, as defined in the Glossary. For first quarter 2012, Aimco's Debt Service and Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios were 1.62:1 and 1:38.1, compared to covenants in place during the quarter of 1.50:1 and 1:30.1, respectively, and first quarter 2011 Ratios of 1.58:1 and 1.34:1. Aimco expects to remain in compliance with these covenants.
See Supplemental Schedule 4 for additional details about Aimco's non-recourse property debt and Supplemental Schedule 5 for information related to Aimco's preferred securities.
 
 
 During first quarter 2012, Aimco issued approximately 405,100 shares of Class Z Cumulative Preferred Stock through its Class Z Preferred Stock At-the-Market offering program (Class Z ATM) at $24.78 per share, equating to a yield of 7.06%, for gross proceeds to Aimco of approximately $10.1 million.
Equity Activity
2012 Outlook
 
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
Live webcast and replay:
http://www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/webcasts
Supplemental Information
The full text of this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release are available on Aimco's website
http://www.aimco.com/investors/financial-reports/quarterly-earning-reports
.
 
 
Glossary & Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial and Operating Measures
Financial and operating measures found in this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. These measures are defined in the glossary in the Supplemental Information and, where appropriate, reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures.
Forward-looking Statements
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of second quarter and full year 2012 results. These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rental rates and property operating results. Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; the timing of acquisitions and dispositions; insurance risk, including the cost of insurance; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of properties presently owned or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, our current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.
About Aimco
Aimco is a real estate investment trust that is focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in the largest markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country's largest owners and operators of apartments, with 361 communities serving approximately 250,000 residents in 30 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at
www.aimco.com
.
Contact
Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President Investor Relations
Investor Relations 303-691-4350,
Investor@Aimco.com
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
(in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited)
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations (continued)
 
Income from Discontinued Operations
Income from discontinued operations consists of the following (in thousands):
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (a)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 1 (a) (continued)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 2
 
Portfolio Summary
As of March 31, 2012
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 3
 
 
One measure of stockholder value is Net Asset Value (NAV), which is assets, net of debt and preferred equity, at their estimated fair values. The information provided below is intended to assist users of Aimco's financial information in making their own estimates of Aimco's NAV. See the following page for notes to the Supplemental Information provided below.
Trailing Twelve Month Net Operating Income Data
 
Proportionate Balance Sheet Data
As of March 31, 2012
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 3 (continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4
 
 
Non-recourse Property Debt Balances and Characteristics
 
Aimco Share Property Debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 4 (continued)
 
 
Year-to-Date Property Loan Closings (Aimco Share)
 
 
Debt Ratios
 
Revolving Line of Credit Debt Coverage Covenants
 
 
Credit Ratings
 
 
Notes
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 5
 
Share Data
(in thousands) (unaudited)
Preferred Securities
 
Common Stock, Partnership Units and Equivalents
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
 
Conventional Same Store Operating Results
First Quarter 2012 Compared to First Quarter 2011
(in thousands, except site, unit and per-unit data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(b)
 
Conventional Same Store Operating Results
First Quarter 2012 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2011
(in thousands, except site, unit and per-unit data) (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 6(c)
 
Conventional Same Store Operating Expense Detail
First Quarter 2012
(in thousands) (unaudited)
First Quarter 2012 Compared to First Quarter 2011
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(a)
 
Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market
First Quarter 2012 Compared to First Quarter 2011
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 7(b)
 
Total Conventional Portfolio Data by Market
Fourth Quarter 2011 Market Information
(unaudited)
Aimco's portfolio strategy focuses on B/B+ quality apartment communities located in the largest U.S. markets as measured by total apartment value. Aimco measures Conventional Property asset quality based on average rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, with A-quality assets earning rents greater than 125% of local market average, B-quality assets earning rents 90% to 125% of local market average and C-quality assets earning rents less than 90% of local market average. Aimco's geographic allocation strategy focuses on the largest U.S. markets, with market quality measured in part based on long-term growth characteristics.
The following schedule illustrates Aimco's Conventional Property portfolio quality and market growth projections based on 4Q 2011 data, which is the most recent period for which third-party data is available.
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 8
 
Property Disposition and Acquisition Activity
(dollars in millions, except average revenue) (unaudited)
First Quarter 2012 Dispositions
 
 
2012 Acquisitions
 
Aimco acquired noncontrolling limited partnership interests in seven consolidated real estate partnerships that own 13 properties with average revenues per unit of $975 and in which Aimco affiliates serve as general partner for a total cost of $38.5 million. The gross estimated fair value of the real estate corresponding to the interests Aimco acquired totaled $123.6 million.
During the first quarter, Aimco acquired a 488-unit property located in Phoenix, Arizona for $72.3 million ($68.8 million contract price), which included Aimco's assumption of nonrecourse property debt with a fair value of $33.3 million ($29.1 million outstanding principal), a 3.41% effective interest rate (5.55% contractual), and a 2019 maturity. The property's revenue per unit is $1,110, and its average rents are approximatley 47% in excess of local market averages.
Notes
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 9
 
Capital Additions
(in thousands, except per unit data) (unaudited)
All capital additions are classified as either Capital Replacements ("CR"), Capital Improvements ("CI"), Redevelopment or Casualties. Non-Redevelopment and non-Casualty capital additions are apportioned between CR and CI based on the useful life of the capital item under consideration and the period over which Aimco has owned the property (i.e., the portion that was consumed during Aimco's ownership of the item represents CR; the portion of the item that was consumed prior to Aimco's ownership represents CI). See the Glossary for further descriptions.
Amounts below represent actual additions related to residential properties that are owned and managed by Aimco at the end of the period. These amounts include consolidated and unconsolidated properties and are not adjusted for Aimco's ownership interest in such properties. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
- properties sold during the period or properties held for sale at the end of the period;
- properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities; and
- properties that Aimco owns but does not manage.
See the Glossary for a reconciliation of these amounts to GAAP capital additions.
 
 
 
Supplemental Schedule 10
 
Summary of Redevelopment Activity
Three Months Ended March 31, 2012
(dollars in millions)
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2012, such vacant or previously vacant properties are: Lincoln Place; The Preserve at Marin; and Pacific Bay Vistas.
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL and OPERATING MEASURES
 
 
This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Aimco's definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial and operating measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. These non-GAAP financial and operating measures should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net income or any other GAAP measurement of performance and should not be considered an alternative measure of liquidity.
 
 
ACQUISITION PROPERTIES:
Properties acquired since January 1, 2011.
ADJUSTED INTEREST EXPENSE:
Adjusted Interest Expense represents Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense less (i) prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs and (ii) the amount of interest income recognized by Aimco related to its investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding only Aimco property debt.
AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
Affordable Properties benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms, tax credit equity, or rental assistance payments to the property owners. Under these programs, rent adjustments are made in accordance with property-specific contracts between Aimco and HUD, with rent increases generally based on an adjustment factor set by HUD annually.
AIMCO OPERATING PARTNERSHIP:
AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, is the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure. Aimco owns approximately 94% of the common partnership units of the Aimco Operating Partnership.
AIMCO PROPORTIONATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
Non-GAAP measures representing Aimco's share of financial information discussed in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information. Aimco's proportionate share of financial information includes Aimco's share of unconsolidated real estate partnerships and excludes noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. Proportionate reporting benefits the users of Aimco's financial information by providing the amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities attributable only to Aimco stockholders. Aimco also refers to this measure as "Aimco's Share" of financial information. See Supplemental Schedules 1, 3 and 4 for reconciliation of Aimco's proportionate share of financial results to Aimco's consolidated financial statements.
CAPITAL ADDITIONS DEFINITIONS AND RECONCILIATION
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI):
CI includes all non-Redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.
CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR):
Unlike CI, CR does not increase the useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. CR represents the portion of capital additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR is deducted in the calculation of AFFO.
 
 
CASUALTY CAPITAL ADDITIONS:
Casualty capital additions represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with the restoration of an asset after a casualty event such as a hurricane, tornado or flood.
Supplemental Schedule 9 contains capital additions information related to (1) residential properties that Aimco owns and manages at the end of the period, (2) properties that are consolidated in Aimco's GAAP financial statements, and (3) properties that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in Aimco's GAAP financial statements. Amounts do not include capital additions related to:
- consolidated properties sold during the period or classified as held for sale at the end of the period;
- consolidated properties that are not multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities; or
- consolidated properties that Aimco owns but does not manage.
Aimco believes the capital addition detail provided in Supplemental Schedule 9 provides an enhanced understanding of capital additions related to our primary business of owning and operating apartment communities. A reconciliation of capital additions presented on Supplemental Schedule 9 to Aimco's consolidated GAAP information is presented below.
 
CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
Conventional Properties represent Aimco's portfolio of market-rate apartment communities. Aimco focuses on owning and operating apartment communities with rents that are 100% to 125% of local market average rents and concentrates its investment in the largest apartment markets in the United States, as measured by apartment value.
DEBT TO EBITDA RATIO:
The ratio of (a) Aimco's proportionate share of debt net of Aimco's proportionate share of cash and restricted cash, and Aimco's investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding only Aimco property debt to (b) EBITDA.
DEBT AND PREFERRED EQUITY TO EBITDA RATIO:
The ratio of (a) Aimco's proportionate share of debt net of Aimco's proportionate share of cash and restricted cash, and Aimco's investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding only Aimco property debt, plus Aimco's preferred stock and the preferred units of the Aimco Operating Partnership to (b) EBITDA.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO:
As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (Compliance EBITDA), reduced by certain capital expenditure reserves, to (b) debt service, which represents the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs) and (ii) debt amortization, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
 
 
EFFECTIVE UNITS:
The number of actual property units multiplied by Aimco's ownership interest in the property as of the end of the current period. Effective Units may be used to analyze Aimco's proportionate financial measures on a per-unit basis.
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA):
EBITDA is the numerator used in Aimco's calculation of EBITDA Coverage of Interest Ratio and EBITDA Coverage of Preferred Dividends and Interest Ratio. EBITDA is computed by adding to Aimco's Pro forma FFO (a) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization related to non-real estate assets, non-cash stock compensation expense and (b) Preferred Dividends.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST RATIO:
The ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) Adjusted Interest Expense . Aimco's management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
EBITDA COVERAGE OF INTEREST AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS RATIO:
The ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) the sum of Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends. Aimco's management uses this ratio as one measure of leverage.
FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO:
As defined by Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Compliance EBITDA to (b) fixed charges, which represent the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs), (ii) debt amortization and (iii) Preferred Dividends, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO):
FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of, and impairment losses recognized with respect to, depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT's April 1, 2002 White Paper as well as the October 2011 definitional change discussed in the Earnings Release.
In addition to FFO, Aimco uses
PRO FORMA FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (Pro forma FFO) and ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO)
to measure performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO as defined above, excluding preferred equity redemption related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests). Preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) are items that periodically affect Aimco's operating results. Aimco excludes preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) from Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of operating performance. AFFO represents Pro forma FFO reduced by Capital Replacements (also adjusted for noncontrolling interests).
FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because they capture features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciating assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO, Pro forma FFO or AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Net income (loss) attributable to Aimco common stockholders as determined in accordance with GAAP is reconciled to FFO and Pro forma FFO as presented on Supplemental Schedule 1 and reconciled to AFFO on the following page.
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Funds From Operations Amounts
 
OTHER AFFORDABLE PROPERTIES:
Affordable Properties that do not meet the Same Store Property definition because they are not managed by Aimco and/or Aimco's ownership interest is less than 10%.
OTHER CONVENTIONAL PROPERTIES:
Conventional Properties that have significant rent control restrictions, university housing properties, non-multi-family such as commercial properties or fitness facilities and properties that had not reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy as of January 1, 2011, often due to a casualty event.
OTHER EXPENSES, NET:
Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and partnership expenses (partnership level expenses incurred directly or indirectly for services such as audit, tax and legal).
 
 
PREFERRED DIVIDENDS:
Preferred dividends include dividends paid with respect to Aimco's Preferred Stock and the Aimco Operating Partnership Preferred Partnership Units.
PROPERTY NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI):
NOI is defined by Aimco as total property rental and other property revenues less direct property operating expenses, including real estate taxes. NOI does not include: property management revenues, primarily from affiliates; casualties; property management expenses; depreciation; or interest expense. NOI is helpful because it helps both investors and management to understand the operating performance of real estate excluding costs associated with decisions about acquisition pricing, overhead allocations and financing arrangements. NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of real estate. A reconciliation of NOI as presented in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information to Aimco's consolidated GAAP amounts is provided below and on the following page.
Reconciliation of Propertionate Property NOI Amounts in Supplemental Schedule 1(a) to Proportionate Property NOI Amounts Included in Aimco's Earnings Release and Supplemental Schedule 6(a)
First Quarter 2012 Compared to First Quarter 2011
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Supplemental Schedule 6(b) Proportionate Conventional Same Store NOI Amounts
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Supplemental Schedule 3 Trailing Twelve Month (TTM) Proportionate NOI Amounts
(in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Properties where (1) a substantial number of available units have been vacated for major renovations or (2) occupancy was not stabilized as of January 1, 2011 due to ongoing or completed renovations, such as exteriors, common areas or unit improvements.
REDEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES:
Same Store properties are those properties (1) that are managed by Aimco, (2) in which Aimco's ownership exceeds 10%, and (3) that have reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy as of January 1, 2011. Same Store properties are classified as either Conventional or Affordable and properties classified in the consolidated financial statements as held for sale are not included in Same Store.
SAME STORE PROPERTIES:
 


