ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW PG&E Corporation is an energy based holding company headquartered in San Francisco, California that conducts its business through two principal subsidiaries: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (the Utility), an operating public utility engaged primarily in the business of providing electricity, natural gas distribution, and transmission services throughout most of Northern and Central California, and PG&E National Energy Group, Inc. (PG&E NEG), a company engaged in power generation, wholesale energy marketing and trading, risk management, and natural gas transmission. The Utility filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy Code) in the Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court) on April 6, 2001. Pursuant to Chapter 11, the Utility retains control of its assets and is authorized to operate its business as a debtor in possession while being subject to the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court. The factors causing the Utility to take this action are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries are principally located in the United States and Canada and include: PG&E Generating Company, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, PG&E Gen LLC); 73 PG&E Energy Trading Holdings Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, PG&E Energy Trading or PG&E ET); PG&E Gas Transmission Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, PG&E GTC), which includes PG&E Gas Transmission, Northwest Corporation and its subsidiaries, including North Baja Pipeline, LLC (NBP) (collectively, PG&E GTN). PG&E NEG also has other less significant subsidiaries. PG&E National Energy Group, LLC owns 100 percent of the stock of PG&E NEG, GTN Holdings, LLC owns 100 percent of the stock of PG&E GTN, and PG&E Energy Trading Holdings, LLC owns 100 percent of the stock of PG&E ET. The organizational documents of PG&E NEG and these limited liability companies require unanimous approval of their respective boards of directors, including at least one independent director, before they can: Consolidate or merge with any entity; Transfer substantially all of their assets to any entity; or Institute or consent to bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings or actions. The limited liability companies may not declare or pay dividends unless the respective boards of directors have unanimously approved such action, and the company meets specified financial requirements. As a result of the sustained downturn in the power industry, PG&E NEG and its affiliates have experienced a financial downturn, which caused the major credit rating agencies to downgrade PG&E NEGs and its affiliates credit ratings to below investment grade. PG&E NEG is currently in default under various recourse debt agreements and guaranteed equity commitments totaling approximately $2.9 billion. In addition, other PG&E NEG subsidiaries are in default under various debt agreements totaling approximately $2.5 billion, but this debt is non recourse to PG&E NEG. PG&E NEG and these subsidiaries continue to negotiate with their lenders regarding a restructuring of this indebtedness and these commitments. The factors affecting PG&E NEGs business causing these defaults and the principal actions being taken by PG&E NEG are discussed later in this MD&A and in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the fourth quarter of 2002, PG&E NEG and certain subsidiaries have agreed to sell or have sold certain assets, have abandoned other assets, and have significantly reduced energy trading operations. As a result of these actions, PG&E NEG has incurred pre tax charges to earnings of approximately $3.9 billion in 2002. PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries are continuing their efforts to abandon, sell, or transfer additional assets in an ongoing effort to raise cash and reduce debt, whether through negotiation with lenders or otherwise. As a result, PG&E NEG expects to incur additional substantial charges to earnings in 2003 as it restructures its operations. In addition, if a restructuring agreement is not reached and the lenders exercise their default remedies, or if the financial commitments are not restructured, PG&E NEG and certain of its subsidiaries may be compelled to seek protection under or be forced into a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code. Management does not expect that the liquidity constraints of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries will affect the financial condition of PG&E Corporation or the Utility. PG&E Corporation has identified three reportable operating segments: Utility; Integrated Energy and Marketing, or the Generation Business; and Interstate Pipeline Operations, or the Pipeline Business. 74 These segments were determined based on similarities in the following characteristics: Economic; Products and services; Types of customers; Methods of distribution; Regulatory environment; and How information is reported to and used by PG&E Corporations chief operating decision makers. These three reportable operating segments provide different products and services and are subject to different forms of regulation or jurisdictions. Financial information about each reportable operating segment is provided in this MD&A and in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion and analysis explains the general financial condition and the results of operations of PG&E Corporation and its subsidiaries including: Factors that affect each business; A comparison of revenues and expenses and why they changed between years; Where earnings came from; How all of this affects overall financial condition; What expenditures for capital projects were for 2000 through 2002, and are expected to be through 2004; and The expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. This is a combined annual report of PG&E Corporation and the Utility and includes separate Consolidated Financial Statements for each of these two entities. The Consolidated Financial Statements of PG&E Corporation reflect the accounts of PG&E Corporation, the Utility, PG&E NEG, and other wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Utility reflect the accounts of the Utility and its wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries. This combined MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. Forward looking statements and risk factors This combined annual report, including the Letter to Shareholders and this MD&A, contains forward looking statements that are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on current expectations and on assumptions which management believes are reasonable and on information currently available to management. These forward looking statements are identified by words such as "estimates," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "could," "should," "would," "may," and other similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward looking statements. 75 Although PG&E Corporation and the Utility are not able to predict all the factors that may affect future results, some of the factors that could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements, or from historical results, include: Recovery of Under collected Power Procurement and Transition Costs Previously Written Off. The extent to which the Utility is able to recover its under collected power procurement and transition costs previously written off depends on many factors, including: What costs the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) determines are eligible for recovery as transition costs; When the Utilitys rate freeze ended, as determined by the CPUC; Sales volatility and the level of direct access customers (i.e., those customers who choose an alternative energy provider); Changes in the California Department of Water Resources (DWR), revenue requirements required to be remitted to the DWR from existing retail rates; Changes in the Utilitys authorized revenue requirements; Future regulatory or judicial decisions that determine whether the Utility is allowed under state law to recover under collected power procurement and transition costs from its customers after the end of the rate freeze; and The outcome of the Utilitys claims against the CPUC Commissioners for recovery of under collected power procurement and transition costs based on the federal filed rate doctrine. Refundability of Amounts Previously Collected. Whether the Utility is required to refund to ratepayers amounts previously collected depends on many factors including: Whether the CPUC determines that certain transition or procurement costs recovered in revenues collected by the Utility were not eligible transition costs or otherwise reduces the amount of revenues authorized to recover such transition or procurement costs; Whether the CPUC ultimately determines that certain past power procurement costs incurred by the Utility were not reasonably incurred and should be disallowed; and The purposes for which the CPUC ultimately determines that surcharges approved by the CPUC in January, March, and May 2001 may be used. Outcome of the Utilitys Bankruptcy Case. The pace and outcome of the Utilitys bankruptcy case will be affected by: Whether the Bankruptcy Court confirms the Utilitys proposed plan of reorganization (Utilitys Plan), the alternative plan sponsored by the CPUC and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors (the CPUC/OCC Plan), or some other plan of reorganization; Whether regulatory and governmental approvals required to implement a confirmed plan are obtained and the timing of such approvals; Whether there are any delays in implementation of a plan due to litigation related to regulatory, governmental, or Bankruptcy Court orders; and Future equity or debt market conditions, future interest rates, future credit ratings, and other factors that may affect the ability to implement either plan or affect the amount and value of the securities proposed to be issued under either plan. 76 Operating Environment. The amount of operating income and cash flows the Utility may record may be influenced by the following: Future regulatory actions regarding the Utilitys procurement of power for its retail customers; The terms and conditions of the Utilitys long term generation procurement plan as approved by the CPUC; The ability of the Utility to timely recover in full its costs including its procurement costs; Future sales levels, which can be affected by general economic and financial market conditions, changes in interest rates, weather, conservation efforts, outages, and the level of direct access customers; The demand for and pricing of natural gas transportation and storage services, which may be affected by weather, overall gas fired generation, and price spreads between various natural gas delivery points; Changes in the Utilitys authorized revenue requirements; and Acts of terrorism, storms, earthquakes, accidents, mechanical breakdowns, or other events or perils that result in power outages or damages to the Utilitys assets or operations, to the extent not covered by insurance. Legislative and Regulatory Environment. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys business may be impacted: By legislative or regulatory changes affecting the electric and natural gas industries in the United States; and By heightened regulatory and enforcement agency focus on the merchant energy business including investigations into "wash" or "round trip" trading, specific trading strategies and other industry issues, with the potential for changes in industry regulations and in the treatment of PG&E NEG by state and federal agencies. Regulatory Proceedings and Investigations. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys business may be affected by: The outcome of the Utilitys various regulatory proceedings pending at the CPUC and at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC); and The outcome of the CPUCs pending investigation into whether the California investor owned utilities (IOUs), have complied with past CPUC decisions, rules or orders authorizing their holding company formations and or governing affiliate transactions, as well as applicable statutes. Pending Legal Proceedings. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys future results of operation and financial conditions may be affected by the outcomes of: The lawsuits filed by the California Attorney General and the City and County of San Francisco against PG&E Corporation alleging unfair or fraudulent business acts or practices based on alleged violations of conditions established in the CPUCs holding company decisions; The outcome of the California Attorney Generals petition requesting revocation of PG&E Corporations exemption from the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; and Other pending litigation. 77 Competition. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys future results of operations and financial condition may be affected by: The threat of municipalization which may result in stranded Utility investment, loss of customer growth, and additional barriers to cost recovery; Changes in the level of direct access customer cost responsibility and other surcharges related to direct access, and competition from other service providers to the extent restrictions on direct access are removed; The development of alternative energy technologies; The ability to compete for gas transmission services into Southern California and with alternative storage providers throughout California; and The growth of distributed generation or self generation. Environmental and Nuclear Matters. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys future results of operations and financial condition may be affected by: The effect of compliance with existing and future environmental laws, regulations, and policies, the cost of which could be significant; Whether the Utility is able to fully recover in rates the costs of complying with existing and future environmental laws, regulations, and policies, the cost of which could be significant; and Whether the Utility incurs costs in connection with its nuclear facilities that exceed the Utilitys insurance coverage and other amounts set aside for decommissioning and other potential liabilities. Accounting and Risk Management. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys future results of operations and financial condition may be affected by: The effect of new accounting pronouncements; Changes in critical accounting estimates; Volatility in income resulting from mark to market accounting and changes in mark to market methodologies; The extent to which the assumptions underlying critical accounting estimates, mark to market accounting, and risk management programs are not realized; and The volatility of commodity fuel and electricity prices, and the effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures designed to address volatility. Efforts to Restructure PG&E NEGs Indebtedness. Whether PG&E NEG and certain of its subsidiaries seek protection under or are forced into a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code will be affected by: The outcome of PG&E NEGs negotiations with lenders under various credit facilities, as well as with representatives of the holders of PG&E NEGs Senior Notes, to restructure PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries indebtedness and commitments; The terms and conditions of any sale, transfer, or abandonment of certain of PG&E NEGs merchant assets, including its New England generating assets, that PG&E NEG may enter into; and The terms and conditions under which certain generating projects will be transferred to the project lenders as required by recent restructuring agreements. 78 PG&E NEG Operational Risks. PG&E Corporations future results of operation and financial condition will be affected by: The extent to which PG&E NEG incurs further charges to earnings as a result of the abandonment, sale or transfer of assets, or termination of contractual commitments, whether such transactions occur in connection with restructuring of PG&E NEGs indebtedness or otherwise; Any potential charges to income that would result from the reduction and potential discontinuance of PG&E NEGs energy trading and marketing operations, including tolling transactions; Any potential charges to income that would result from the discontinuance or transfer of any of PG&E NEGs merchant generation assets; The inability of PG&E NEG, its merchant asset and other subsidiaries, including US Gen New England, Inc., to maintain sufficient liquidity necessary to meet their commodity and other obligations. The extent to which PG&E NEGs current construction of generation, pipeline, and storage facilities are completed and the pace and cost of that completion, including the extent to which commercial operations of these construction projects are delayed or prevented because of financial or liquidity constraints, changes in the national energy markets and by the extent and timing of generating, pipeline, and storage capacity expansion and retirements by others; or by various development and construction risks such as PG&E NEGs failure to obtain necessary permits or equipment, the failure of third party contractors to perform their contractual obligations, or the failure of necessary equipment to perform as anticipated and the potential loss of permits or other rights in connection with PG&E NEGs decision to delay or defer construction; The impact of layoffs and loss of personnel at PG&E NEG; and Future sales levels which can be affected by economic conditions, weather, conservation efforts, outages, and other factors. Current Conditions in the Energy Markets and the Economy. PG&E Corporations future results of operations and financial condition will be affected by changes in the energy markets, changes in the general economy, wars, embargoes, financial markets, interest rates, other industry participant failures, the markets perception of energy merchants and other factors. Actions of PG&E NEG Counterparties. PG&E Corporations future results of operations and financial condition may be affected by: The extent to which counterparties demand additional collateral in connection with PG&E ETs trading and nontrading activities and the ability of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries to meet the liquidity calls that may be made; and The extent to which counterparties seek to terminate tolling agreements and the amount of any termination damages they may seek to recover from PG&E NEG as guarantor. As the ultimate impact of these and other factors is uncertain, these and other factors may cause future earnings to differ materially from historical results or outcomes currently sought or expected. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. 79 Market Conditions and Business Environment During 2002, adverse changes in the electric power and gas utility industry and energy markets affected PG&E Corporation, the Utility, and PG&E NEGs business including: Contractions and instability of wholesale electricity and energy commodity markets; Significant decline in generation margins (spark spreads) caused by excess supply and reduced demand in most regions of the United States; Loss of confidence in energy companies due to increased scrutiny by regulators, elected officials, and investors as a result of a string of financial reporting scandals; Heightened scrutiny by credit rating agencies prompted by these market changes and scandals which resulted in lower credit ratings for many market participants; and Resulting significant financial distress and liquidity problems among market participants leading to numerous financial restructurings and less market participation. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES Utility In 1998, the State of California implemented electric industry restructuring and established a framework allowing generators and other electricity providers to charge market based prices for electricity sold on the wholesale market. The implementing legislation also established a retail electricity rate freeze and a plan for recovery of generation related costs that were expected to be uneconomic under the new market framework. State regulatory action further strongly encouraged the Utility to sell a majority of its fossil fuel fired generation facilities and made it economically unattractive to retain its remaining generation facilities. The resulting sales of generation facilities in turn made the Utility more dependent on the newly deregulated wholesale electricity market. Beginning in June 2000, wholesale prices for electricity began to increase. Prices moderated somewhat in the fall before increasing to unprecedented levels in November 2000 and later months. Since the Utilitys retail rates were frozen, it financed the higher costs of wholesale electricity by issuing debt and drawing on its credit facilities. The Utilitys inability to recover its electric procurement costs from customers ultimately resulted in billions of dollars in defaulted debt and unpaid bills and caused the Utility to file a voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court on April 6, 2001. While in bankruptcy, the Utility is not allowed to pay liabilities incurred before it filed for bankruptcy without permission from the Bankruptcy Court. Additionally, While in bankruptcy, the Utility does not have access to external funding from capital markets; The Utility is in default under its credit facilities, commercial paper, floating rate notes, senior notes, pollution control loan agreements, and medium term notes, as a result of its failure to pay certain of its obligations. However, the event of default under each security has been stayed in accordance with the bankruptcy proceedings; and The Utility has been making capital investments (investments in property, plant, and equipment) out of its cash on hand under the supervision of the Bankruptcy Court. The Utility anticipates that it will be able to continue making such necessary capital investments in the future, subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. As a result of the California energy crisis and the Utilitys bankruptcy filing, a number of qualifying facilities (QFs) requested the Bankruptcy Court to either terminate their contracts to sell electricity to the Utility, or have the contracts suspended for the summer of 2001 so the QFs could sell electricity at market based rates. Since July 2001, the Utility has entered into 264 five year agreements 80 with QFs (authorized by the Bankruptcy Court) to assume their power purchase agreements. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the QF power purchase agreements. In March 2002, the Bankruptcy Court authorized the Utility to pay certain pre and post petition interest on certain claims prior to emerging from bankruptcy. The Bankruptcy Court also authorized the Utility to make certain principal payments on pre petition secured debt that has matured. See the Cash Flows section of this MD&A for a discussion of the Utilitys interest and principal payments made during 2002. Since filing for bankruptcy, the Utility has been accruing interest on its pre petition liabilities at the required rates included in the Utilitys proposed plan of reorganization. As a result, the payment of such interest did not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations. The Utility will continue to accrue interest on its pre petition liabilities at the required rates in 2003. However, due to the uncertainty of the ultimate outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings, the Utility is not able to estimate the amount of interest that will be paid in 2003. The Utility and PG&E Corporation have jointly filed a proposed plan of reorganization (Plan) that, if approved, would enable the Utility to emerge from bankruptcy. The Utility Plan, and an alternative plan proposed by the CPUC and the OCC are currently moving through the Chapter 11 process. In November 2002, the Bankruptcy Court began the confirmation trial to determine which plan, if any, the Bankruptcy Court will confirm. The Bankruptcy Court has scheduled hearing dates through the end of March 2003. PG&E Corporation and the Utility are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of the Utilitys bankruptcy proceedings, including which plan, if any, the Bankruptcy Court may confirm. Both the Plan and the alternative plan propose issuing new debt as part of the reorganization. PG&E Corporation and the Utility have incurred, and will continue to incur throughout the reorganization process, legal, accounting, trustee, and other fees associated with the debt issuance. In addition, PG&E Corporation and the Utility have incurred and will continue to incur consulting fees for assistance with the implementation of either plan. The majority of the debt issuance fees and consulting expenses incurred thus far have been expensed and are included in Reorganization Professional Fees and Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, though a small amount has been capitalized. The Utility will continue to expense costs associated with the reorganization process that do not specifically relate to certain services associated with issuing new debt. On January 1, 2003, the IOUs, including the Utility, resumed procuring electricity to meet their customers net open position under California Senate Bill (SB) 1976. For discussion of the requirements contained in SB 1976, see "Regulatory Matters" section of the MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the California energy crisis, the Utilitys voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code, and the status of the Chapter 11 confirmation hearings. PG&E NEG PG&E NEG has been significantly impacted by adverse changes in the energy markets in 2002. New generation came online while the demand for power was dropping. This oversupply and reduced demand resulted in low spark spreads (the net of power prices less fuel costs) and depressed operating margins. These changes in the power industry have had a significant negative impact on the financial results and liquidity of PG&E NEG. Before July 31, 2002, most of the various debt instruments of PG&E NEG and its affiliates carried investment grade credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poors 81 Ratings Group (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys). Since July 31, 2002, these credit rating agencies have downgraded all of PG&E NEGs debt facilities to below investment grade. PG&E NEG is currently in default under various recourse debt agreements and guaranteed equity commitments totaling approximately $2.9 billion. In addition, other PG&E NEG subsidiaries are in default under various debt agreements totaling approximately $2.5 billion, but this debt is non recourse to PG&E NEG. On November 14, 2002, PG&E NEG defaulted on the repayment of its $431 million 364 day tranche of its corporate revolving credit facility (Corporate Revolver). This resulted in a default under the two year tranche of the Corporate Revolver, which had an outstanding balance of $273 million at December 31, 2002, the majority of which supports outstanding letters of credit. The default under the Corporate Revolver also constitutes a cross default under PG&E NEGs (amounts outstanding at December 31, 2002): (1) Senior Notes ($1 billion), (2) guarantee of its turbine revolving credit facility (Turbine Revolver) ($205 million), and (3) equity commitment guarantees for GenHoldings I, LLCs (Gen Holdings) credit facility ($355 million), La Paloma credit facility ($375 million) and Lake Road credit facility ($230 million). In addition, on November 15, 2002, PG&E NEG failed to pay a $52 million interest payment due under the Senior Notes. PG&E NEG does not currently have sufficient cash to meet its financial obligations and has ceased making payments on its debt and equity commitments. PG&E NEG, and its subsidiaries are restructuring their operations to increase cash, reduce financial obligations, dispose of merchant plant facilities, and decrease energy trading operations. PG&E NEGs objective is to limit its asset trading and risk management activities to only what is necessary for energy management services to facilitate the transition of PG&E NEGs merchant generation facilities through their sale, transfer or abandonment. PG&E NEG will then further reduce and transition to only retain limited capabilities to ensure fuel procurement and power logistics for PG&E NEGs retained independent power plant operations. These restructuring activities have caused material charges to earnings in 2002, and are anticipated to cause substantial additional charges to earnings in 2003. PG&E NEG, its subsidiaries and their lenders are engaged in discussions regarding restructuring of these commitments. If a restructuring agreement is not reached and the lenders exercise their default remedies, or if the financial commitments are not restructured, PG&E NEG and certain of its subsidiaries may be compelled to seek protection under or be forced involuntarily into proceedings under the Bankruptcy Code. PG&E Corporation is participating with PG&E NEG, its subsidiaries and their lenders in negotiations to restructure PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries commitments. However, under the terms of its credit agreement, PG&E Corporation is limited as to the amount and conditions under which it can provide cash to PG&E NEG. In particular, the Credit Agreement limits PG&E Corporations ability to make investments in PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries from existing cash to 75 percent of the net cash tax savings (less certain costs and expenses) actually received by PG&E Corporation as a result of certain sales and debt restructuring transactions of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries. See further details in "PG&E Corporation Debt Financing" below. If the negotiations with PG&E NEGs lenders prove unsuccessful and if lenders exercise their default remedies and PG&E NEG is forced to seek protection under or is forced into a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code, management does not expect the liquidity constraints at PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries will affect the financial condition of PG&E Corporation or the Utility. Asset transfers, sales and abandonments, liquidity issues, and restructuring activities have resulted in substantial charges to earnings in 2002. In addition, PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries expect to incur additional substantial charges to earnings in 2003 primarily related to: The reduction in energy trading activities; 82 The possible settlement of tolling arrangements, see discussion of tolling agreements in this MD&A under Commitments and Capital Expenditures Tolling Agreements; Charges related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" (see discussion in this MD&A under Accounting Pronouncements issued but not yet adopted); A possible settlement under the Attala tolling agreement and related lease (see discussion below in Impairments, Write offs, and Other Charges); Potential conversion of existing debt and equity funding commitments to new discounted obligations, including potential write offs of deferred financing costs; and Further restructuring costs. Impairments, Write offs, and Other Charges The following table outlines the pre tax charges for impairments, write offs, and other charges that PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries recorded: (in millions) Fourth Quarter 2002 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Impairment of GenHoldings projects $ 1,147 $ 1,147 Impairment of Lake Road and La Paloma projects 452 452 Impairment of Mantua Creek project 279 279 Impairment of Turbines & Other Related Equipment costs 30 276 Termination of Interest Rate Swaps on Lake Road, La Paloma, and GenHoldings projects 189 189 Impairment of Dispersed Generation 88 118 Impairment of Goodwill 95 Impairment of Project Development Costs 57 76 Impairment of Southaven Loan 74 74 Impairment of Prepaid Rents related to the Attala lease 43 43 Impairment of Kentucky Hydro project 18 18 Total Pre tax Impairments, Write offs, and Other Charges $ 2,377 $ 2,767 Discontinued Operations Pre tax Loss on disposal of USGen New England, Inc. 1,123 1,123 Pre tax loss on disposal of ET Canada 25 25 Total Pre tax Charges $ 3,525 $ 3,915 Impairment of GenHoldings I LLC Projects: GenHoldings, a subsidiary of PG&E NEG, is obligated under its credit facility to make equity contributions to fund construction of the Athens, Covert and Harquahala generating projects. This credit facility is secured by these projects in addition to the Millennium generating facility. GenHoldings defaulted under its credit agreement in October 2002 by failing to make equity contributions to fund construction draws for the Athens, Covert and Harquahala generating projects. Although PG&E NEG has guaranteed GenHoldings obligation to make equity contributions of up to $355 million, PG&E NEG notified the GenHoldings lenders that it would not make further equity contributions on behalf of GenHoldings. In November and December 2002, the lenders executed waivers and amendments to the credit agreement under which they agreed to continue to waive until March 31, 2003, the default caused by GenHoldings failure to make equity contributions. In addition, certain of these lenders have agreed to increase their loan commitments to an amount sufficient to provide: (1) the funds necessary to complete construction of the Athens, Covert and Harquahala facilities; and (2) additional working capital facilities to enable each project, including 83 Millennium, to timely pay for its fuel requirements and to provide its own collateral to support natural gas pipeline capacity reservations and independent transmission operator requirements. The November and December increased loan commitments rank equally with each other but are senior to amounts loaned through and including the October credit extension. In consideration of the lenders forbearance and additional funding, PG&E NEG and GenHoldings have agreed to cooperate with any reasonable proposal by the lenders regarding disposition of the equity in or assets of any or all of the GenHoldings subsidiaries holding the Athens, Covert, Harquahala, and Millennium projects in connection with the restructuring of PG&E NEGs and it subsidiaries financial commitments to such lenders. The amended credit agreement provides that an event of default will occur if the Athens, Covert, Harquahala, and Millennium projects are not transferred to the lenders or their designees on or before March 31, 2003. Such a default would trigger lender remedies, including the right to foreclose on the projects. Under the waiver, PG&E NEG has re affirmed its guarantee of GenHoldings obligation to make equity contributions of approximately $355 million to these projects. Neither PG&E NEG nor GenHoldings currently expects to have sufficient funds to make this payment. The requirement to pay $355 million remains an obligation of PG&E NEG that would survive the transfer of the projects. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144 "Accounting For the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," the long lived assets of GenHoldings at December 31, 2002 were tested for impairment. As a result of the test, the assets were determined to be impaired and were written down to fair value. Based on the current estimated fair value of these assets, GenHoldings recorded a pre tax loss from impairment of $1.147 billion in the fourth quarter of 2002. Impairment of Lake Road and La Paloma Projects: On November 14, 2002, PG&E NEG defaulted under its equity commitment guarantees for the Lake Road and the La Paloma credit facilities. As of December 4, 2002, PG&E NEG and certain of its subsidiaries entered into agreements with respect to each of the Lake Road and La Paloma generating projects providing for (1) funding of construction costs required to complete the La Paloma facility; and (2) additional working capital facilities to enable each subsidiary to timely pay for its fuel requirements and to provide its own collateral to support natural gas pipeline capacity reservations and independent transmission system operator requirements, as well as for general working capital purposes. Lenders extending new credit under these agreements have received liens on the projects that are senior to the existing lenders liens. These agreements provide, among other things, that the failure to transfer right, title and interest in, to and under the Lake Road and La Paloma projects to the respective lenders by June 9, 2003, will constitute a default under the agreements. The failure to transfer the facilities would entitle the lenders to accelerate the new indebtedness and exercise other remedies. The Lake Road and La Paloma projects have been financed entirely with debt. PG&E NEG has guaranteed the repayment of a portion of the project subsidiary debt of approximately $230 million for Lake Road and $375 million for La Paloma, which amounts represent the subsidiaries equity contribution in the projects. The lenders have demanded the immediate payment of these equity contributions. Neither the PG&E NEG subsidiaries nor PG&E NEG have sufficient funds to make these payments. The requirement to make the payments will remain an obligation of PG&E NEG that would survive the transfer of the projects. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the long lived assets of the Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries at December 31, 2002, were tested for impairment. As a result of the test, these assets were determined to be impaired and were written down to fair value. Based on the current estimated fair value of these assets, the Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries recorded a pre tax loss from impairment of approximately $186 million and $266 million, respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2002. Impairment of Mantua Creek Project: The Mantua Creek project is a nominal 897 megawatt (MW) combined cycle merchant power plant located in the Township of West Deptford, New Jersey. 84 Construction began in October 2001 and the project was 24 percent complete as of October 31, 2002. Due to liquidity concerns, PG&E NEG could no longer provide equity contributions to the project and efforts to sell the project were unsuccessful. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2002, contracts with vendors were suspended or terminated to eliminate an increase in project costs. In December 2002, the project provided notices of termination to the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland Independent System Operator (PJM), and other significant counterparties. With all significant contracts terminated, PG&E NEGs subsidiary will abandon this project in early 2003. PG&E NEGs subsidiary has written off the capitalized development and construction costs of $257 million at December 31, 2002. In addition, PG&E NEG has recorded an accrual of $22 million for charges and associated termination costs at December 31, 2002. Impairment of Turbines and Other Related Equipment: To support PG&E NEGs electric generating development program, PG&E NEG subsidiaries had contractual commitments and options to purchase a significant number of combustion turbines and related equipment. PG&E NEG subsidiaries commitment to purchase combustion turbines and related equipment exceeded the new planned development activities discussed herein. In the second quarter of 2002, these PG&E NEG subsidiaries recognized a pre tax charge of $246 million. The charge consisted of the impairment of the previously capitalized costs associated with prior payments made under the terms of the turbine and equipment contracts in the amount of $188 million and an accrual of $58 million for future termination payments required under the turbine and related equipment contracts. In addition, at that time, the PG&E NEG subsidiaries retained capitalized prepayment costs associated with three development projects that were to be further developed or sold. In the fourth quarter of 2002, these PG&E NEG subsidiaries incurred an additional pre tax charge of $30 million for the write off of prior turbine prepayments associated with the impairment of the remaining development projects as discussed below. In November 2002, subsidiaries of PG&E NEG reached agreement with General Electric Company (GEC) to terminate its master turbine purchase agreement and with General Electric International, Inc. (GEII) to terminate its master long term service agreement. GEC and GEII have agreed to reduce the termination fees from approximately $34 million to approximately $22 million and to defer payment of the reduced fees to December 31, 2004. The costs to terminate this contract were accrued for in the second quarter of 2002 as discussed above. Also in November 2002, Mitsubishi Power Systems, Inc. (MPS) notified PG&E NEGs subsidiary that it was terminating the turbine purchase agreement for failure to pay past due amounts and failure to collateralize PG&E NEGs guarantee. While PG&E NEGs subsidiary has disputed that such amounts were due before January and July 2003 and has asserted that a breach under PG&E NEGs guarantee did not give rise to a breach of the turbine purchase agreement, neither PG&E NEG nor its subsidiary intends to contest the termination. The costs to terminate this contract were accrued for in the second quarter of 2002, as discussed above. On January 31, 2003, a termination payment of $4.5 million was made with the remaining amount of $9.5 million expected to be paid in July 2003. Termination of Interest Rate Swaps on Lake Road, La Paloma and GenHoldings Projects: As a result of the Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries failure to make required equity payments under interest rate hedge contracts entered into by them, the counterparties to such interest rate hedge contracts have terminated the contracts. Settlement amounts due from the Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries in connection with such terminated contracts are, in the aggregate, $61 million and $78 million, respectively. Further, as a result of GenHoldings failure to make required payments under interest rate hedge contracts entered into by GenHoldings, the counterparties to such interest rate hedge contracts terminated the contracts during December 2002. Settlement amounts due by GenHoldings in connection with such terminated contracts are, in the aggregate, approximately $50 million. The Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries and GenHoldings incurred a pre tax charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002 for these amounts totaling $189 million. 85  Impairment of Dispersed Generation: PG&E NEG is seeking a buyer for PG&E Dispersed Generation, LLC, Plains End, LLC, Dispersed Properties, LLC and 100 percent of the capital stock of Ramco Inc, (collectively, referred to as Dispersed Gen Companies or Dispersed Generation). In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the long lived assets of the Dispersed Gen Companies were tested for impairment. As a result of the test, these assets were determined to be impaired and were written down to fair value. Based on the current estimated fair value (based on the estimated proceeds) of a sale, Dispersed Generation recorded a pre tax loss from impairment of $88 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. This is in addition to a pre tax loss from impairment of $30 million that was recorded in the third quarter of 2002, which related to certain equipment (turbines, generators, transformers, etc.) that was purchased and or refurbished and held for future expansion at current Dispersed Generation facilities. Impairment of Goodwill: SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," requires that goodwill be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Due to significant adverse changes within the national energy markets, PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries elected to test its goodwill for possible impairment in the third quarter of 2002. Based upon the results of the fair value test, PG&E NEG and it subsidiaries recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $95 million in the third quarter of 2002. The fair value of the segment was estimated using the discounted cash flows method. At December 31, 2002, there was no goodwill remaining at PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries. Impairment of Development Costs: In the second quarter of 2002, PG&E NEG project subsidiaries recognized an impairment loss related to the capitalized costs associated with certain development projects. These PG&E NEG subsidiaries analyzed the potential future cash flow from those projects that it no longer anticipated developing and recognized an impairment of the asset value it was carrying for those projects. The aggregate pre tax impairment charge recorded by these PG&E NEG subsidiaries for its development assets (excluding associated equipment) was $19 million recorded in the second quarter of 2002. At that time, these PG&E NEG subsidiaries continued to develop or planned to sell three additional projects. These subsidiaries have ceased developing these projects and sought to sell the development assets. To date, these subsidiaries have been unsuccessful in selling these projects and have tested the capitalized costs associated with the projects for impairment at December 31, 2002. Based upon the results of these tests, an additional aggregate pre tax impairment charge of approximately $57 million was recorded by these subsidiaries for their development assets (excluding associated equipment costs as discussed above) in the fourth quarter of 2002. While these subsidiaries have impaired all of their development projects, they have not abandoned the permits or rights to these projects. It is anticipated that these permits and rights will be abandoned for all development projects in 2003. Impairment of Southaven Power LLC Loan Receivable: PG&E ET signed a tolling agreement with Southaven Power LLC (Southaven) dated June 1, 2000, pursuant to which PG&E ET was required to provide credit support that meets certain requirements set forth in the agreement. PG&E ET satisfied this obligation by providing an investment grade guarantee from PG&E NEG. The original maximum amount of the guarantee was $250 million. However, this amount was reduced by approximately $74 million, the amount of a subordinated loan that PG&E ET made to Southaven on August 31, 2002. Southaven has advised PG&E ET that it believes an event of default under the tolling agreement has taken place with respect to the obligation for a guarantee because PG&E NEG is no longer investment grade as defined in the agreement and because PG&E ET has failed to provide, within 30 days from the downgrade, substitute credit support that meets the requirements of the agreement. Under the tolling agreement, Southaven has the right to terminate the agreement and seek a termination payment. In addition, PG&E ET has provided Southaven with a notice of default with respect to Southavens performance under the tolling agreement. If this default is not cured, PG&E ET has the right to terminate the agreement and seek recovery of a termination payment. On February 4, 86 2003, PG&E ET provided a notice of termination. Southaven has objected to the notice and has filed suit in connection with this matter. PG&E ET has recorded an impairment of the loan receivable due to the uncertainty associated with the recoverability of the loan, which was subordinate to the senior debt of the project and reliant upon operations of the plant under the terms of the tolling agreement. Impairment of Prepaid Rents on Attala Lease: On May 7, 2002, Attala Generating Company LLC (Attala Generating), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PG&E NEG, completed a $340 million sale and leaseback transaction whereby it sold and leased back its approximately 526 MW generation facility located in Mississippi to a third party special purpose entity. PG&E NEG has provided a $300 million guarantee to support the payment obligations of another indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Attala Energy Company LLC (Attala Energy) under a tolling agreement entered into with Attala Generating. The payments under the 25 year term tolling agreement provide Attala Generating, as lessee, with sufficient cash flows during the term of the tolling agreement to pay rent under a 37 year lease and certain other operating costs. Due to current energy market conditions, Attala Energy is unable to make the payments under the tolling agreement and failed to make the required payment due on November 22, 2002, to Attala Generating. Failure to cure this payment default constituted an event of default under the tolling agreement as of November 27, 2002. Further, PG&E NEGs failure to pay maturing principal under its Corporate Revolver on November 14, 2002, became an event of default under the tolling agreement upon Attala Energys failure to replace the PG&E NEG guarantee by December 16, 2002. On December 31, 2002, the tolling agreement terminated following notice of termination given by Attala Generating. The parties are currently determining the termination payment, if any, that Attala Energy would owe Attala Generating. Despite the termination of the tolling agreements, Attala Energy remains obligated to provide an acceptable guarantee or collateral to secure its obligations under the tolling agreement, including the payment of any termination payment that may be determined to be due. No default has occurred under the related lease and Attala Generating timely made the $22.2 million lease payment due on January 2, 2003. However, the lease provides that failure to replace the tolling agreement with a satisfactory replacement tolling agreement within 180 days after the first default under the tolling agreement, which occurred on November 27, 2002, will constitute an event of default under the lease. After the termination payment has been determined in accordance with the tolling agreement and if Attala Energy or PG&E NEG both fail, or have failed, to provide security as required by the tolling agreement, the time period would not extend beyond the 60th day after such failure to provide security. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the lease, the lessor would be entitled to exercise various remedies, including termination of the lease and foreclosure of the assets securing the lease. At December 31, 2002, Attala Generating wrote off prepaid rental payments of $43 million due to the uncertainty of future cash flows associated with the lease. Impairment of Kentucky Hydro Project: The Kentucky Hydro Generating Project consists of two run of river hydroelectric power plants located in Kentucky on the Ohio River. The project negotiated a turnkey, fixed price contract with VA Tech MCE Corporation (VA Tech) and issued a limited notice to proceed in August 2001. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2002, all work on the project was suspended except for minimal expenditures to maintain the FERC licenses. The termination cost due to VA Tech of approximately $14 million was fully paid. VA Tech terminated the contract effective December 6, 2002. As part of the settlement of PG&E NEG subsidiarys partnership arrangement, this subsidiary assigned its partnership interest to the original developer, W.V. Hydro, on February 7, 2003. PG&E NEG has written off the capitalized development and construction costs and provided for all termination costs by recording a pre tax charge of $18 million at December 31, 2002. Asset Held For Sale U.S. Gen New England: Consistent with its previously announced strategy to dispose of certain merchant assets, in December 2002, the Board of Directors of PG&E Corporation approved managements plan for the proposed sale of USGen New England Inc. (USGenNE). Under 87 the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the equity of USGenNE has been accounted for as an asset held for sale at December 31, 2002. This requires that the assets be recorded at the lower of fair or book value. Based on the current estimated fair value (based on the estimated proceeds) of a sale of USGenNE, a pre tax loss of $1.1 billion, with no tax benefits associated with the loss, was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2002. It is anticipated that the sale of the USGenNE assets will occur during 2003. This loss on sale, as well as the operating results from USGenNE, have been reported as discontinued operations in the financial statements of PG&E NEG and subsidiaries at December 31, 2002. Assets Held for Sale ET Canada: In December 2002, the proposed sale of PG&E Energy Trading, Canada Corporation (ET Canada) to Seminole Gas Company Limited was approved. Based upon the sales price, PG&E Energy Trading Holdings Corporation, the direct owner of the shares of ET Canada, recorded a $25 million pre tax loss, with no tax benefits associated with the loss, on the disposition of ET Canada. The transaction is anticipated to close by the end of February or early March 2003. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, the equity of ET Canada has been classified as assets held for sale and will be reflected as discontinued operations in the financial statements of PG&E NEG and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002. 88 COMMITMENTS AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The following table provides information about PG&E Corporation, the Utility and PG&E NEGs contractual obligations and commitments at December 31, 2002. (Dollars in millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Utility: Power purchase agreements $ 1,984 $ 1,701 $ 1,544 $ 1,446 $ 1,377 $ 8,492 Natural gas supply and transportation 595 138 83 26 10 Nuclear fuel 59 50 12 13 14 65 Other Commitments 60 45 39 24 11 11 Long term debt: Liabilities not subject to compromise: Fixed rate principal obligations 281 310 290 2,139 Average interest rate 6.25 % 6.25 % 5.88 % 7.25 % Liabilities subject to compromise: Fixed rate principal obligations 173 54 696 1 1 261 Average interest rate 7.40 % 7.51 % 9.56 % 9.45 % 9.45 % 5.95 % 7.90 Percent Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures 300 Variable rate principal obligations 349 265 Rate reduction bonds 290 290 290 290 290 Average interest rate 6.36 % 6.42 % 6.42 % 6.44 % 6.48 % PG&E NEG: Fuel supply and natural gas transportation agreements 105 91 91 88 75 380 Power purchase agreement 217 220 220 220 225 1,140 Operating leases 70 79 79 81 84 807 Long Term Service Agreements 41 7 7 7 7 36 Payment in lieu of taxes 28 21 14 16 17 97 Construction commitments 237 Tolling agreements 62 62 62 62 62 482 Long term debt: Fixed rate obligations 6 250 250 Variable rate obligations 86 3 60 52 4 11 Average interest rate 6.41 % 6.57 % 6.92 % 7.33 % 7.31 % 7.10 % PG&E Corporation: Long term debt: Fixed rate obligations (9.50% Convertible Subordinated Notes) 280 Average interest rate 9.50 % Variable rate(1) 842 (1)$720 million outstanding at December 31, 2002, with 4 percent interest compounded yields value of $842 million at maturity. Utility The Utilitys contractual commitments include natural gas supply and transportation agreements, purchase power agreements (including agreements with QFs, irrigation districts and water agencies, 89 bilateral power purchase contracts, and renewable energy contracts), nuclear fuel agreements, operating leases and other commitments. The Utilitys commitments under financing arrangements include obligations to repay first and refunding mortgage bonds, senior notes, medium term notes, pollution control loan agreements, Deferrable Interest Subordinated Dedentures, lines of credit, letters of credit, floating rate notes, and commercial paper. PG&E Funding LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Utility is also obligated to make scheduled principal payments on its rate reduction bonds. For further detailed discussion of the Utilitys contractual commitments and obligations, see Notes 4, 5, and 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. PG&E NEG PG&E NEG subsidiaries have the following contractual commitments: Fuel Supply and Transportation Agreements PG&E NEG, through its various subsidiaries, has entered into gas supply and firm transportation agreements with a number of pipelines and fuel transportation services. Under these agreements, PG&E NEGs subsidiaries must make specified minimum payments each month. Power Purchase Agreements USGenNE assumed rights and duties under several power purchase contracts with third party independent power producers as part of the acquisition of the New England Electric System assets. As of December 31, 2002, these agreements provided for an aggregate of approximately 800 MW of capacity. USGenNE is required to pay New England Power Company amounts due to third party producers under the power purchase contracts. Operating Leases Various subsidiaries of PG&E NEG entered into several operating lease agreements for generating facilities and office space. Lease terms vary between 3 and 48 years. In November 1998, USGenNE entered into a $479 million sale leaseback transaction whereby the subsidiary sold and leased back a pumped storage station under an operating lease. On May 7, 2002, Attala Generating completed a $340 million sale and leaseback transaction whereby it sold and leased back its facility to a third party special purpose entity. The related lease is being accounted for as an operating lease. See discussion above for further information relating to the Attala lease agreement. Operating lease expense amounted to $78 million, $54 million, and $70 million in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Long Term Service Agreements Various subsidiaries of PG&E NEG have entered into long term service agreements for the maintenance and repair of certain combustion turbine or combined cycle generating plants. These agreements are for periods up to 18 years. Payments in Lieu of Property Taxes Various subsidiaries of PG&E NEG have entered into certain agreements with local governments that provide for payments in lieu of property taxes for some of its generating facilities. Construction Commitments Various subsidiaries of PG&E NEG currently have four projects (Athens, Covert, La Paloma, and Harquahala) under construction. PG&E NEGs construction commitments are generally related to the major construction agreements including the construction and other related contracts. Certain construction contracts also contain commitments to purchase turbines and related equipment. 90 Tolling Agreements PG&E ET entered into tolling agreements with several counterparties allowing PG&E NEG the right to sell electricity generated by facilities owned and operated by other parties. Under the tolling agreements, PG&E NEG, at its discretion, supplies the fuel to the power plants, then sells the plants output in the competitive market. Committed payments are reduced if the plant facilities do not achieve agreed upon levels of performance. See Tolling Agreements below for additional information relating to these agreements. Guarantees PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries guarantees fall into four broad categories: Equity commitments; PG&E ETs energy trading and non trading activities related to PG&E NEGs merchant energy portfolio excluding tolling agreements; Tolling agreements; and Other guarantees. Equity Commitments: Refer to discussion above on impairments under "Market Conditions and Business Environment." Activities Related to Merchant Portfolio Operations: PG&E NEG and certain subsidiaries have provided guarantees to approximately 232 counterparties in support of PG&E ETs energy trading and non trading activities related to PG&E NEGs merchant energy portfolio in the face amount of $2.7 billion. Typically, the overall exposure under these guarantees is only a fraction of the face value of these guarantees, since not all counterparty credit limits are fully used at any time. As of January 31, 2003, PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries aggregate exposure under these guarantees was approximately $82.8 million. The amount of such exposure varies daily depending on changes in market prices and net changes in position. In light of the downgrades, some counterparties have sought and others may seek replacement security to collateralize the exposure guaranteed by PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries. PG&E GTN and PG&E ET have terminated the arrangements pursuant to which PG&E GTN provided guarantees on behalf of PG&E ET such that PG&E GTN will provide no new guarantees on behalf of PG&E ET. At January 31, 2003, PG&E ETs estimated exposure not covered by a guarantee (excluding exposure under tolling agreements) was approximately $90 million. To date, PG&E ET has met those replacement security requirements properly demanded by counterparties and has not defaulted under any of its master trading agreements although one counterparty has alleged a default. No demands have been made upon the guarantors of PG&E ETs obligations under these trading agreements. In the past, PG&E ET has been able to negotiate acceptable arrangements and reduce its overall exposure to counterparties when PG&E ET or its counterparties have faced similar situations. There can be no assurance that PG&E ET can continue to negotiate acceptable arrangements in the current circumstances. PG&E NEG cannot quantify with any certainty the actual future calls on PG&E ETs liquidity. PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries ability to meet these calls on their liquidity will vary with market price volatility, uncertainty with respect to PG&E NEGs financial condition and the degree of liquidity in the energy markets. The actual calls for collateral will depend largely upon the ability to enter into forbearance agreements, and pre and early pay arrangements with counterparties, the continued performance of PG&E NEG companies under the underlying agreements, whether counterparties have the right to demand such collateral, the execution of master netting agreements and offsetting transactions, changes in the amount of exposure, and other commercial considerations. 91 Tolling Agreements: PG&E ET has entered into tolling agreements with several counterparties under which it, at its discretion, supplies the fuel to the power plants and then sells the plants output in the competitive market. Payments to the counterparties are reduced if the plants do not achieve agreed upon levels of performance. The face amount of PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries guarantees relating to PG&E ETs tolling agreements is approximately $600 million. The tolling agreements currently in place are with: (1) Liberty Electric Power, L.P. (Liberty) guaranteed primarily by PG&E NEG and secondarily by PG&E GTN for an aggregate amount of up to $150 million; (2) DTE Georgetown, LLC (DTE) guaranteed by PG&E GTN for up to $24 million; (3) Calpine Energy Services, L.P. (Calpine) for which no guarantee is in place; (4) Southaven guaranteed by PG&E NEG for up to $175 million; and (5) Caledonia Generating, LLC (Caledonia) guaranteed by PG&E NEG for up to $250 million. Liberty Liberty has provided notice to PG&E ET that the ratings downgrade of PG&E NEG constituted a material adverse change under the tolling agreement requiring PG&E ET to replace the guarantee and post security in the amount of $150 million. PG&E ET has not posted such security. Liberty has the right to terminate the agreement and seek recovery of a termination payment. Under the terms of the guarantees to Liberty for the aggregate $150 million, Liberty must first proceed against PG&E NEGs guarantee, and can demand payment under PG&E GTNs guarantee only if (1) PG&E NEG is in bankruptcy or (2) Liberty has made a payment demand on PG&E NEG which remains unpaid five business days after the payment demand is made. In addition, PG&E ET has provided notices to Liberty of several breaches of the tolling agreement by Liberty and has advised Liberty that, unless cured, these breaches would constitute a default under the agreement. If these defaults remain uncured, PG&E ET has the right to terminate the agreement and seek recovery of a termination payment. DTE By letter dated October 14, 2002, DTE provided notice to PG&E ET that the downgrade of PG&E GTN constituted a material adverse change under the tolling agreement between PG&E ET and DTE and that PG&E ET was required to post replacement security within ten days. By letter dated October 23, 2002, PG&E ET advised DTE that because there had not been a material adverse change with respect to PG&E GTN within the meaning of the tolling agreement, PG&E ET was not required to post replacement security. If PG&E ET was required to post replacement security and it failed to do so, DTE would have the right to terminate the tolling agreement and seek recovery of a termination payment. Calpine The tolling agreement states that on or before October 15, 2002, Calpine was to have issued a full notice to proceed under its construction contract to its engineering, procurement and construction contractor for the Otay Mesa facility. On October 16, 2002, PG&E ET asked Calpine to confirm that it had issued this full notice to proceed and Calpine was not able to do so to the satisfaction of PG&E ET. Consequently, PG&E ET advised Calpine by letter dated October 30, 2002, that it was terminating the tolling agreement effective November 29, 2002. Calpine has indicated that this termination was improper and constituted a default under the agreement, but has not taken any further action. Caledonia and Southaven New Tolling Agreements PG&E ET signed a tolling agreement with Caledonia dated as of September 20, 2000, pursuant to which PG&E ET is to provide credit support as defined in the tolling agreement. PG&E ET satisfied this obligation by providing a guarantee from PG&E NEG that was investment grade as defined in the agreement. The amount of the guarantee now does not exceed $250 million. By letter dated August 31, 2002, Caledonia advised PG&E ET that it believed an event of default under the tolling agreement had taken place with respect to this obligation as PG&E NEG was no longer investment grade as defined in the tolling agreement and because PG&E ET had failed to provide, within thirty days from the downgrade substitute credit support that met the requirements of the tolling agreement. Caledonia has the right to terminate the agreement and seek a 92 termination payment. In addition, PG&E ET has provided Caledonia with a notice of default respecting Caledonias performance under the tolling agreement concerning the inability of the facility to inject its output into the local grid. Caledonia has not cured this default and on February 4, 2003, PG&E ET provided a notice of termination. PG&E ET signed a tolling agreement with Southaven dated as of June 1, 2000, under which PG&E ET is required to provide credit support as defined in the agreement. PG&E ET satisfied this obligation by providing an investment grade guarantee from PG&E NEG as defined in the tolling agreement. The amount of the guarantee is approximately $175 million. By letter dated August 31, 2002, Southaven advised PG&E ET that it believed an event of default under the tolling agreement had taken place as PG&E NEG was no longer investment grade as defined in the tolling agreement and because PG&E ET had failed to provide, within thirty days from the downgrade, substitute credit support that met the requirement of the tolling agreement. Southaven has the right to terminate the agreement and seek a termination payment. In addition, PG&E ET has provided Southaven with a notice of default respecting Southavens performance under the tolling agreement concerning the inability of the facility to inject its output into the local grid. Southaven has not cured this default and on February 4, 2003, PG&E ET provided a notice of termination. On February 7, 2003, Southaven filed emergency petitions to compel arbitration or alternatively, a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction with the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland. The Court has denied the relief requested and has set the matter for hearing on February 27, 2003. PG&E ET is not able to predict whether the counterparties will seek to terminate the agreements or whether the Court will grant the requested relief. Accordingly, it is not able to predict whether or the extent to which these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on PG&E NEGs financial condition or results of operation. Under each tolling agreement determination of the termination payment is based on a formula that takes into account a number of factors including market conditions such as the price of power and the price of fuel. In the event of a dispute over the amount of any termination payment that the parties are unable to resolve by negotiation, the tolling agreement provides for mandatory arbitration. The dispute resolution process could take as long as six months to more than a year to complete. To the extent that PG&E ET did not pay these damages, the counterparties could seek payment under the guarantees for an aggregate amount not to exceed $600 million. PG&E NEG is unable to predict whether counterparties will seek to terminate their tolling agreements. PG&E NEG does not currently expect to be able to pay any termination payments that may become due. Other Guarantees PG&E NEG has provided guarantees related to other obligations by PG&E NEG companies to counterparties for goods or services. PG&E NEG does not believe that it has significant exposure under these guarantees. The most significant of these guarantees relate to performance under certain construction and equipment procurement contracts. In the event PG&E NEG is unable to provide any additional or replacement security which may be required as a result of rating downgrades, the counterparty providing the goods or services could suspend performance or terminate the underlying agreement and seek recovery of damages. These guarantees represent guarantees of subsidiary obligations for transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business. Some of the guarantees relate to the construction or development of PG&E NEGs power plants and pipelines. These guarantees are described below. PG&E NEG has issued guarantees for the performance of the contractors building the Harquahala and Covert power projects for up to $555 million. Any exposure under the guarantees for construction completion is mitigated by guarantees in favor of PG&E NEG from the constructor and equipment 93 vendors related to performance, schedule, and cost. The constructor and various equipment vendors are performing under their underlying contracts. PG&E NEG has issued $100 million of guarantees to the constructor of the Harquahala and Covert projects to cover certain separate cost sharing arrangements. Failure to perform under those separate cost sharing arrangements or the related guarantees would not have an impact on the constructors obligations to complete the Harquahala and Covert projects pursuant to the construction contracts. However, in the event that the construction contractor incurs certain un reimbursed project costs or cost overruns, the contractor could assert a claim against PG&E NEGs subsidiary or PG&E NEG under its guarantees. PG&E NEG believes that no claim can be validly asserted by the construction contractor as of the date hereof. PG&E NEG has provided a $300 million guarantee to support a tolling agreement that a wholly owned subsidiary, Attala Energy, has entered into with Attala Generating. See discussion above under "Impairment of Prepaid Rents on Attala Lease," for additional discussion of this guarantee. In addition to those discussed above, PG&E NEG has guarantees for commitments undertaken by PG&E NEG or subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business for services such as facility and equipment leases, ash disposal rights, and surety bonds. Credit Facility Summary: PG&E NEG has the following credit facilities outstanding at January 31, 2003: (in millions) Total Bank Commitment Balance PG&E NEG Inc. Tranche A (2 year facility)(a) $ 264 $ 264 PG&E NEG Inc. Tranche B (364 day facility)(a) 431 431 PG&E ETH and Subsidiaries Facility One 35 34 PG&E ETH and Subsidiaries Facility Two 19 19 PG&E Generating LLC 7 7 USGen New England 100 88 PG&E GTC and Subsidiaries 125 53 Total $ 981 $ 896 (a)PG&E NEG is currently in default on both its Tranche A and Tranche B credit facility. PG&E CORPORATION Due to the Utilitys deteriorating liquidity and financial condition during the California energy crisis in 2000, PG&E Corporation refinanced its debt obligations through a credit agreement (Original Credit Agreement) with General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. (LCPI) in 2001. The proceeds of this refinancing were used to pay commercial paper, borrowings under PG&E Corporations long term revolving credit facility, and a fourth quarter 2000 dividend to shareholders. During 2002, PG&E Corporation negotiated new terms to amend the Original Credit Agreement. In August 2002, PG&E Corporation made a voluntary prepayment of principal and interest totaling $607 million to the GECC portion of the debt. On October 18, 2002, PG&E Corporation entered into a Second Amended Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) with the remaining lenders for a total amount of $720 million. Of the total amount secured under the Credit Agreement, $420 million covered amounts retained under the prior credit agreement and $300 million represented new loans (New Loans and collectively referred to as the 94 Loans). These New Loans were released from a separate escrow account to PG&E Corporation on January 17, 2003, concurrent with a funding fee payment of $9 million. All obligations of PG&E Corporation under the Credit Agreement are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in the outstanding common stock of the Utility and all proceeds thereof. With respect to 35 percent of such common stock pledged for the benefit of the lenders, the lenders have customary rights of a secured creditor, provided that certain regulatory approvals may be required in connection with any foreclosure on such stock. With respect to the remaining 65 percent, such common stock has been pledged for the benefit of the lenders, but the lenders have no ability to control such common stock under any circumstances and do not have any of the typical rights and remedies of a secured creditor. However, the lenders do have the right to receive any cash proceeds received upon a disposition of such common stock. All obligations of PG&E Corporation under the Credit Agreement continue to be secured by a perfected first priority security interest in 100 percent of the equity interests in PG&E NEG LLC and 100 percent of the common stock of PG&E NEG and all proceeds thereof. The Credit Agreement limits the ability of PG&E Corporation and some of its subsidiaries to grant liens, consolidate, merge, purchase or sell assets, declare or pay dividends, incur indebtedness, or make advances, loans, and investments. In addition, PG&E Corporation may not use the proceeds of the New Loans to make investments in PG&E NEG LLC or PG&E NEG, or any of their subsidiaries or, in the Utility, except as specifically permitted by the terms of the loans or as required by applicable law or the conditions adopted by the CPUC with respect to holding companies. However, the Credit Agreement generally permits: PG&E NEG LLC, PG&E NEG, and their respective subsidiaries to enter into sales and other dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of business and in certain qualified transactions; PG&E Corporation to use existing cash to make investments in PG&E NEG (limited to 75 percent of the net cash tax savings actually received by PG&E Corporation from certain PG&E NEG transactions after October 1, 2002) in connection with certain sales and debt restructuring transactions of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries; PG&E Corporation to make investments funded from existing cash, and to pay obligations of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries (including, without limitation, any obligations for which PG&E Corporation becomes a surety or a guarantor) up to a cumulative amount not to exceed $15 million; PG&E NEG LLC, PG&E NEG, or their respective subsidiaries to grant liens or incur debt; PG&E Corporation and the Utility to consummate the transactions contemplated in the Utilitys Plan; and PG&E Corporation to spin off 100 percent of the equity interests in PG&E NEG LLC and 100 percent of the common stock of PG&E NEG, and all proceeds thereof, with the consent of lenders holding more than 50.1 percent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans. The Credit Agreement provides for stated events of default and events requiring mandatory prepayment of the Loans. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Credit Agreement. In connection with the Utilitys proposed plan of reorganization, PG&E Corporation intends to negotiate with the lenders to obtain their consent to the issuance of up to $700 million of PG&E Corporation equity and the contribution of some of the proceeds of issuance to the capital of the Utility. 95 In connection with the Credit Agreement, PG&E Corporation also has issued to the lenders additional warrants to purchase 2,669,390 shares of common stock of PG&E Corporation, with an exercise price of $0.01 per share. PG&E Corporation has agreed to provide, following consummation of a plan of reorganization of the Utility, registration rights in connection with the shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants. The net proceeds of the Loans will be used to fund corporate working capital and for general corporate purposes. PG&E Corporations Convertible Subordinated Notes (Notes) in the aggregate principal amount of $280 million were issued on June 25, 2002. The Notes, maturing on June 30, 2010, have an interest rate of 9.50 percent, and provide the holder of the Notes with a one time right to require PG&E Corporation to repurchase the Notes on June 30, 2007, at a purchase price equal to the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest (including any liquidated damages and pass through dividends). CASH FLOWS Utility The following section discusses the Utilitys significant cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000. Operating Activities Results from the Utilitys consolidated cash flows from operating activities for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net income (loss) $ 1,819 $ 1,015 $ (3,483 ) Depreciation, amortization, and decommissioning included in net income 1,193 896 3,511 Reversal of ISO accrual included in net income (970 ) Increase in accounts payable 198 1,312 3,063 Payments authorized by the Bankruptcy Court on amounts classified as liabilities subject to compromise (1,442 ) (16 ) (Increase) Decrease in income taxes receivable (50 ) 1,120 (1,120 ) Other operating activity adjustments 386 438 (1,416 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,134 $ 4,765 $ 555 Operating activities provided net cash of $1.1 billion in 2002 and $4.8 billion in 2001. The decrease during the period is primarily due to the following factors: The Utility filed for bankruptcy in April 2001, which automatically stayed all payments on liabilities incurred prior to the bankruptcy. Subsequent to the bankruptcy, the Utility resumed paying its ongoing expenses in the ordinary course of business. As a result, the growth in accounts payable is $1.1 billion lower in 2002 compared to 2001; The Utility received a $1.1 billion income tax refund in 2001; no comparable refund was received in 2002; In 2002, approximately $901 million in principal owed to QFs prior to the bankruptcy was repaid by the Utility under Bankruptcy Court approved agreements. Among other things, the 96 agreements provided for repayments of amounts owed to QFs prior to the bankruptcy either in full or in 6 to 12 monthly installments; and In 2002, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order authorizing the Utility to pay pre and post petition interest to: 1.Holders of certain undisputed claims, including commercial paper, senior notes, floating rate notes, medium term notes, Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures (QUIDS), prior bond claims, revolving line of credit claims, and secured debt claims; 2.Trade creditors, including QFs; and 3.Certain other general unsecured creditors. The Utility paid approximately $1 billion in pre and post petition interest related to these claims during 2002. The interest payments included accrued interest on financial debt previously classified as liabilities subject to compromise totaling $433 million. Operating activities provided net cash of $4.8 billion in 2001 and $0.6 billion in 2000. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to an increase in net income and the receipt of a $1.1 billion income tax refund in 2001. Of the $4.5 billion increase in net income, $2.6 billion was attributable to a decrease in depreciation, a non cash expense. See the Results of Operations section of this MD&A for a discussion of the Utilitys net income. Investing Activities Results from the Utilitys consolidated cash flows from investing activities for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Capital expenditures $ (1,546 ) $ (1,343 ) $ (1,245 ) Other investing activities 37 5 38 Net cash used by investing activities $ (1,509 ) $ (1,338 ) $ (1,207 ) Cash used by investing activities in 2002, 2001, and 2000, was primarily for capital expenditures related to improvements to the Utilitys electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution systems. While the Utility is in bankruptcy, capital expenditures are being funded with cash provided by operating activities. 97 Financing Activities Results from the Utilitys consolidated cash flows from financing activities for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net (repayments) borrowings under credit facilities and short term borrowings $ $ (28 ) $ 2,630 Net, long term debt issued, matured, redeemed, or repurchased (333 ) (111 ) 373 Rate reduction bonds matured (290 ) (290 ) (290 ) Common stock repurchased (275 ) Dividends paid (475 ) Other financing activities (1 ) (26 ) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities $ (623 ) $ (430 ) $ 1,937 Except as contemplated in the Utilitys proposed plan of reorganization discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Utility has no plans to seek external financing as a source of funding. Additionally, the Utility is not allowed to pay dividends on its preferred or common stock while in bankruptcy without Bankruptcy Court approval. As discussed in Note 9 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Utility did not declare or pay common and preferred stock dividends in 2001 or 2002. Preferred stock dividends have a cumulative feature in which preferred stock dividends must be brought current before any dividends can be distributed to common stockholders. Further, the preferred stocks have a mandatory sinking fund feature in which funds are set aside for the future periodic retirement of outstanding preferred stock. Until cumulative dividend payments on the Utilitys preferred stock and mandatory sinking fund payments are made, the Utility may not pay dividends on its common stock. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Utilitys preferred stock. 2002 Financing activities used $623 million of net cash in 2002 primarily reflecting the repayments of long term debt and rate reduction bonds. Pursuant to Bankruptcy Court approval, the Utility repaid $333 million in principal on its mortgage bonds that matured in March 2002. PG&E Funding LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Utility, also repaid $290 million in principal on its rate reduction bonds during 2002. PG&E Funding LLC and the rate reduction bonds are not included in the Utilitys bankruptcy. 2001 Financing activities used $430 million of net cash in 2001 primarily for repayments of long term debt and rate reduction bonds. The repayment of long term debt included payments on: (in millions) Medium term notes $ 18 Mortgage bonds 93 Net repayment of long term debt $ 111 The payments on the medium term notes and the mortgage bonds were made before the Utilitys April 2001 bankruptcy filing. PG&E Funding LLC repaid $290 million in principal on its rate reduction bonds during 2001. As previously mentioned, the rate reduction bonds are not included in the Utilitys bankruptcy. 98 2000 Financing activities provided $1.9 billion of net cash in 2000 primarily due to borrowings under credit facilities and short term borrowings, partially offset by (1) principal payments on long term debt and rate reduction bonds, (2) common stock repurchases, and (3) dividend payments. Net borrowings under credit facilities and short term borrowings included the following: (in millions) Credit facility draws $ 614 Commercial paper issuance 776 364 day floating rate notes issuance 1,240 Net borrowings under credit facilities and short term borrowings $ 2,630 The Utility issued, repaid, redeemed, or repurchased long term debt as follows: (in millions) Issuance of: Senior notes $ 680 Maturity of: Mortgage bonds (110 ) Various medium term notes (113 ) Other long term debt (3 ) Repurchase of: Various pollution control loan agreements (81 ) Net issuance, repayment, redemption, and repurchase of long term debt $ 373 PG&E Funding LLC repaid $290 million in principal on its rate reduction bonds during 2000. As previously mentioned, the rate reduction bonds are not included in the Utilitys bankruptcy. In April 2000, a subsidiary of the Utility repurchased 11.9 million shares of the Utilitys common stock from PG&E Corporation at a cost of $275 million. The repurchase was made so that the Utility could maintain its CPUC authorized capital structure, which is the level of common and preferred equity the Utility may maintain in relation to debt. PG&E NEG The cash from operations for the years 2002, 2001, and 2000 will not be indicative of the future cash flow from operations due to the changes in the operations of PG&E NEG (discussed above). To the extent that the commitments of PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries can be restructured, future cash from operations will be principally generated by the PG&E NEG pipeline business as well as dividends from PG&E NEGs independent power producer generation project companies which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. If the commitments are not restructured, PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries will not generate sufficient funds to meet its outstanding cash requirements and may file or be forced into bankruptcy. In addition to the impacts of PG&E NEGs downgrades, PG&E NEGs and its subsidiaries ability to service these obligations is impacted by constraints on the ability to move cash from one subsidiary to another or to PG&E NEG itself. PG&E NEGs subsidiaries must now independently determine, in light of each companys financial situation, whether any proposed dividend, distribution or intercompany loan is permitted and is in such subsidiarys interest. Therefore, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow and Consolidated Balance Sheets quantifying PG&E NEGs cash and cash equivalents do 99 not reflect the cash actually available to PG&E NEG or any particular subsidiary to meet its obligations. At January 31, 2003, PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries had the following unrestricted cash and short term investment balances (not including in transit items): (in millions) PG&E NEG $ 126 PG&E ET and Subsidiaries 98 PG&E Gen and Subsidiaries 97 PG&E GTN and Subsidiaries 17 Other 60 Consolidated PG&E NEG $ 398 Operating Activities Results from PG&E NEGs consolidated cash flows from operating activities for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows on a summarized basis: (in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net income (loss) $ (3,423 ) $ 171 $ 152 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used) provided by operating activities before price risk management assets and liabilities 3,539 (38 ) 119 Subtotal 116 133 271 Price risk management assets and liabilities, net 99 130 (21 ) Net effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities: Restricted cash (62 ) (62 ) 3 Net, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities 100 42 65 Inventories, prepaids, deposits and other (471 ) 143 (154 ) Net cash provided (used) by operating activities $ (218 ) $ 386 $ 164 During 2002, PG&E NEG used net cash from operating activities of $218 million. Net cash from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities and price risk management assets and liabilities was $116 million in 2002, created principally from results of operations offset by the timing of deferred tax benefits and lower distributions from unconsolidated affiliates. Change in price risk management assets and liabilities increased cash flow by $99 million due to realization of cash from price risk management activities. The change in inventories, prepaid expenses, deposits, and other liabilities decreased cash flow by $471 million primarily due to increased credit collateral deposit requirements in PG&E NEGs trading operations. Adding to these cash outflows were $62 million of increased in restricted cash requirements. During 2001, PG&E NEG generated net cash from operating activities of $386 million. Net cash from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities and price risk management assets and liabilities was $133 million in 2001, created principally from results of operations offset by the timing of deferred tax benefits and lower distributions from unconsolidated affiliates. Change in price risk management assets and liabilities increased cash flow by $130 million due to realization of cash from price risk management activities. PG&E NEGs net cash inflow related to the change in accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities from operations assets and liabilities in $42 million. The change in inventories, prepaid expenses, deposits, and other liabilities increased cash flow by $143 million primarily due to repayments of margin deposits in PG&E NEGs trading 100 operations. Offsetting these cash inflows were $62 million of increased restricted cash requirements in several of PG&E NEGs projects in construction. During 2000, PG&E NEG generated net cash from operating activities of $164 million. Net cash from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities and price risk management assets and liabilities was $271 million in 2000, created principally from the timing of deferred tax benefits and higher distributions from unconsolidated affiliates. Change in price risk management assets and liabilities decreased cash flow by $21 million. PG&E NEGs net cash inflow related to the change in accounts receivables, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities increased cash flow by $65 million. The change in inventories, prepaid expenses, deposits, and other liabilities decreased cash flow by $154 million principally due to increased margin deposits in PG&E NEGs trading operations. Investing Activities The cash outflows from investing activities for the years 2002, 2001, and 2000 will not be indicative of the future cash outflow from investing activities due to the changes in the operations of PG&E NEG (discussed above). Depending on the results of the restructuring negotiations discussed above, it is anticipated that future cash outflows from investing operations will be principally generated by our pipeline business principally related to maintenance capital expenditures. Results from PG&E NEGs consolidated cash flows from investing activities for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Capital expenditures $ (1,485 ) $ (1,426 ) $ (900 ) Acquisition of generating assets (107 ) (311 ) Proceeds from sale of assets (equity investments) 46 442 Proceeds from sale leaseback 340 Long term prepayment on turbines (15 ) (89 ) (132 ) Investment in Southaven project (74 ) Repayment of note receivable from PG&E Corporation 75 Long term receivable 136 81 75 Other, net (63 ) 7 (38 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,040 ) $ (1,534 ) $ (864 ) Total capital expenditures detailed by business segment and expenditure amount associated with construction work in progress for the year ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Capital expenditure by business segment: Integrated energy and marketing activities $ 1,294 $ 1,324 $ 885 Interstate pipeline operations 191 102 15 Total capital expenditures $ 1,485 $ 1,426 $ 900 Expenditure associated with construction work in progress $ 1,353 $ 1,318 $ 722 During 2002, PG&E NEG used net cash of $1,040 million in investing activities compared to $1,534 million for the same period in 2001, or a decrease of $494 million. The decrease in cash used in investing activities from period to period was primarily due to proceeds from the Attala Generating sale leaseback transaction providing $340 million, proceeds of $46 million from the partial sale of PG&E NEGs interest in Hermiston and the repayment of a $75 million loan from PG&E Corporation 101 to PG&E GTN. Offsetting these proceeds were capital expenditures of $1,485 million in 2002 versus $1,426 million in 2001. These capital expenditures were used primarily for construction work in progress and were financed by non recourse debt. Due to PG&E NEGs default on making equity commitments, these construction projects will potentially be transferred to lenders in 2003. Advanced development and turbine prepayments were $74 million less in 2002 versus 2001 due to the reductions and cancellations of new construction efforts. All remaining development assets and related turbine and other equipments contracts will be abandoned and terminated during 2003. As a result of investment downgrades, PG&E ET replaced a $74 million letter of credit issued to Southaven with cash pursuant to a subordinated loan agreement. No such activity occurred in 2001. Included in investing activities for 2002 and 2001, are cash flows of $136 million and $81 million respectively related to the long term receivable from New England Power Company (NEPC) associated with the assumption of power purchase agreements. These cash flows offset cash payments made to NEPC which are reflected in operating activities. PG&E NEG intends to sell USGenNE in 2003. During 2001, PG&E NEG used net cash of $1.5 billion for investing activities, which were primarily attributable to capital expenditures associated with generating projects in construction, its purchase of the Mountain View wind project, and prepayments on turbines and related equipment. During 2000, PG&E NEG used net cash of $864 million for investing activities. The primary cash outflows from investing activities were for capital expenditures associated with generating projects in construction, the acquisition of Attala, and prepayments on the turbines and related equipment. These outflows were partially offset by the receipt of $442 million in proceeds from sales of assets and equity investments. Included in investing activities is a cash flow of $75 million related to the long term receivable from NEPC associated with the assumption of power purchase agreements. These cash flows offset cash payments made to NEPC which are reflected in operating activities. Financing Activities Results from PG&E NEGs consolidated cash flows from financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net borrowings (repayments) under credit facilities $ $ (189 ) $ (5 ) Repayment of obligations due related parties and affiliates (100 ) Advances from PG&E Corporation 79 Long term debt issued 1,506 1,114 711 Long term debt matured, redeemed, or repurchased (403 ) (757 ) (85 ) Notes issuance, net of discount and issuance costs 987 Deferred financing costs (41 ) (39 ) Capital contributions 608 Distributions (106 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 962 $ 1,116 $ 1,202 During 2002, PG&E NEG provided net cash flows from financing activities of $962 million. PG&E NEGs cash inflows from financing activities were primarily attributable to increases in long term debt issued relating to the continuing completion of PG&E NEGs construction facilities and borrowings under construction financing. During 2001, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.1 billion, principally from the net proceeds related to the issuance of the Senior Unsecured Notes due 2011. 102  During 2000, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 billion. Net cash provided by financing activities resulted primarily from non recourse project debt of $711 million, and capital contributions by PG&E Corporation of $608 million, partially offset by distributions to PG&E Corporation of $106 million. PG&E Corporation The following section discusses PG&E Corporations significant cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000. Operating Activities Results from PG&E Corporations consolidated cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net income (loss) $ (874 ) $ 1,099 $ (3,364 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation, amortization, and decommissioning 1,309 1,002 3,595 Net effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities: Restricted cash (513 ) (66 ) (6 ) Accounts receivable 51 1,000 (1,941 ) Accounts payable 377 1,213 4,200 Payments authorized by the Bankruptcy Court on amounts classified as liabilities subject to compromise (1,442 ) (16 ) Assets and liabilities of operations held for sale 34 (117 ) 64 Other, net 1,592 1,166 (1,793 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 534 $ 5,281 $ 755 Net cash provided by operating activities was $534 million in 2002, $5,281 million in 2001, and $755 million in 2000. The decrease during 2002 was primarily due to the following factors: The continued operation of the Utility as a debtor in possession under the Bankruptcy Code and the prior year impact of an income tax refund. Increased working capital requirements of PG&E NEG, primarily due to increased credit collateral deposit requirements in PG&E NEGs trading operations. The increase during 2001 was primarily due to the Utilitys pre petition obligations being stayed under the Bankruptcy Code, and deliveries on previously held trading positions at PG&E NEG. 103 Investing Activities Results from PG&E Corporations consolidated cash flows from investing activities for the year ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Capital expenditures $ (3,032 ) $ (2,773 ) $ (2,334 ) Other, net 482 (103 ) 656 Net cash used by investing activities $ (2,550 ) $ (2,876 ) $ (1,678 ) Net cash used in investing activities in 2002, 2001, and 2000 was primarily for capital expenditures at the Utility and construction and development projects at PG&E NEG. The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2002, compared to 2001, was primarily due to the proceeds received by PG&E NEG from Attala Generating. Financing Activities Results from PG&E Corporations consolidated cash flows from financing activities for the year ended 2002, 2001, and 2000 are as follows: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net borrowings (repayments) under credit facilities $ $ (1,148 ) $ 2,846 Long term debt issued 2,414 3,008 1,659 Long term debt matured, redeemed, or repurchased (1,644 ) (868 ) (865 ) Rate reduction bonds matured (290 ) (290 ) (290 ) Common stock issued 217 15 65 Dividends paid (109 ) (436 ) Other, net (141 ) (41 ) 21 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 556 $ 567 $ 3,000 Net cash generated through financing activities in 2002, 2001, and 2000 was principally achieved through long term debt issuances and increased borrowings under new and existing credit facilities. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2002, compared to 2001, of $11 million, was a result of the Utilitys repayment of long term debt, partly offset by PG&E NEGs increased borrowings under new and existing credit facilities. During 2002, PG&E Corporation negotiated new terms to amend the Original Credit Agreement, reducing the principal balance from $1 billion to $720 million which included $300 million in new long term debt. 104 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In this section, PG&E Corporation discusses earnings and the factors affecting them for each operating segment. The table below details certain items from the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations by operating segment for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000. PG&E National Energy Group (in millions) Utility Total PG&E NEG Integrated Energy & Marketing Activities Interstate Pipeline Operations PG&E NEG Eliminations PG&E Corporation, Eliminations and Other (1) Total 2002 Operating revenues (2) $ 10,514 $ 2,075 $ 1,855 $ 253 $ (33 ) $ (94 ) $ 12,495 Operating expenses 6,601 4,812 4,653 109 50 (50 ) 11,363 Operating income (loss) $ 3,913 $ (2,737 ) $ (2,798 ) $ 144 $ (83 ) $ (44 ) 1,132 Interest income 132 Interest expense (1,454 ) Other income (expense), net 90 Loss before income taxes (100 ) Income benefit (43 ) Loss from continuing operations (57 ) Net loss $ (874 ) 2001 (3) Operating revenues (2) $ 10,462 $ 1,920 $ 1,680 $ 246 $ (6 ) $ (172 ) $ 12,210 Operating expenses 7,984 1,787 1,679 109 (1 ) (152 ) 9,619 Operating income (loss) $ 2,478 $ 133 $ 1 $ 137 $ (5 ) $ (20 ) 2,591 Interest income 167 Interest expense (1,209 ) Other income (expense), net (31 ) Income before income taxes 1,518 Income taxes 535 Income from continuing operations 983 Net income $ 1,099 2000 (3) Operating revenues (2) $ 9,637 $ 3,127 $ 2,009 $ 1,112 $ 6 $ (196 ) $ 12,568 Operating expenses 14,838 2,858 1,937 906 15 (199 ) 17,497 Operating income (loss) $ (5,201 ) $ 269 $ 72 $ 206 $ (9 ) $ 3 (4,929 ) Interest income 214 Interest expense (788 ) Other income (expense), net (23 ) Loss before income taxes (5,526 ) Income benefit (2,103 ) Loss from continuing operations (3,423 ) Net loss $ (3,364 ) (1)PG&E Corporation eliminates all inter segment transactions in consolidation. (2)Operating revenues and expenses reflect the adoption during 2002 of a new accounting policy implementing a change from gross to net method of reporting revenues and expenses on trading activities. Prior year amounts for trading activities have been reclassified to conform with the new net presentation. (3)Prior periods amounts have been restated to reflect the reclassification of USGenNE, Mountain View, and ET Canada operating results to discontinued operations. 105 PG&E Corporation Consolidated Overall Results PG&E Corporations net loss for the year ended December 31, 2002, was $874 million, compared to net income of $1,099 million for the same period in 2001, and a net loss of $3,364 million for the same period in 2000. The significant changes in pre tax income for both years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, when compared to prior year are summarized in the table below: (in millions) 2002 2001 PG&E Corporation Interest expense (121 ) (105 ) Interest and other income 72 17 Utility Electric revenues 852 472 Natural gas revenues (800 ) 353 Cost of electricity 1,292 3,967 Deferred electric procurement costs (6,465 ) Cost of natural gas 878 (407 ) Operating and maintenance (432 ) 302 Depreciation amortization and decommissioning (297 ) 2,615 Provision for loss on generation related regulatory assets and under collected power costs 6,939 Reorganization fees and expenses (58 ) (97 ) Interest and other income (35 ) (76 ) Interest expense (14 ) (355 ) PG&E NEG Revenues 155 (1,207 ) Cost of revenues (197 ) 1,217 Impairments, write offs, and other charges (2,767 ) Operating expenses (61 ) (146 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (70 ) 9 Discontinued operations (1,244 ) 48 PG&E Corporations results of operations continue to be impacted by the California energy crisis, the Utilitys bankruptcy filing, and the current liquidity and financial downturn at PG&E NEG. The overall results of the Utility and PG&E NEG are discussed separately below. Please see the Liquidity and Financial Resources section above, and Notes 2 and 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The changes in performance for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, are attributable to the following factors: PG&E Corporation Interest Expense In the third quarter, PG&E Corporation wrote off unamortized loan fees and discounts of $83 million relating to the prepayments of a portion of outstanding debt and $70 million relating to ratings waiver extensions. In addition, PG&E Corporation wrote off $38 million of unamortized loan discounts representing the value of unvested PG&E NEG options associated with the note prepayment. 106 Other Income The third quarter change in the market value of vested PG&E NEG warrants previously issued in connection with the PG&E Corporation March 1, 2001, Credit Agreement totaled $71 million. Dividends No dividends were declared in 2002 or 2001 in accordance with the Credit Agreement, which prohibits PG&E Corporation from declaring or paying dividends until the term loans have been repaid. In March 2001, PG&E Corporation paid $109 million of defaulted fourth quarter 2000 dividends in conjunction with the refinancing of PG&E Corporation obligations. Utility Electric Revenues The following table shows a breakdown of the Utilitys electric revenue by customer class: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Residential $ 3,646 $ 3,396 $ 3,062 Commercial 4,588 4,105 3,110 Industrial 1,449 1,554 1,053 Agricultural 520 525 420 Total 10,203 9,580 7,645 Direct access credits $ (285 ) $ (461 ) $ (1,055 ) DWR pass through revenue (2,056 ) (2,173 ) Miscellaneous 316 380 264 Total electric operating revenues $ 8,178 $ 7,326 $ 6,854 Electric revenues in 2002 increased $852 million, or 11.6 percent, from 2001. This increase in electric revenues was primarily due to three factors: The amount of CPUC authorized surcharges increased $751 million in 2002 from 2001. This increase reflects the collection of a $0.035 per kilowatt hour (kWh) surcharge, effective June 2001, for all of 2002, as compared to the collection of this surcharge for only seven months during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2001. Direct access credits in 2002 decreased $176 million from 2001. In accordance with CPUC regulations, the Utility provides an energy credit to direct access customers (those who buy their electricity from another energy service provider, or ESP). The Utility bills direct access customers based on fully bundled rates, which includes generation, distribution, transmission, and other components. However, each direct access customer receives an energy credit equal to the procurement component of the fully bundled rates, which includes (1) the Utilitys estimated procurement and generation cost, and (2) the Utilitys generation component of the frozen rate for electricity provided by the DWR. The decrease in direct access credits was due to a decrease in the average direct access credit per kWh offset by an increase in the total electricity provided to direct access customers by ESPs. The average direct access credit per kWh was higher in 2001 because in the beginning of 2001 the Utility used the California Power Exchange (PX) price for wholesale electricity to calculate direct access credits. Subsequent to the closure of the PX in January 2001, direct access credits have been calculated based on the procurement component of the fully bundled rate, which has been significantly lower than the PX price. The average direct access credit decreased from $0.116 per kWh in 2001 to $0.038 per kWh in 2002. In 2002, ESPs supplied 107 approximately 7,433 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity to direct access customers, compared to 3,982 GWh in 2001. Revenue passed through to the DWR decreased by $117 million in 2002. The Utility passes revenue through to the DWR for electricity procured by the DWR to cover the Utilitys net open position (the amount of electricity needed by retail electric customers that cannot be met by utility owned generation or electricity under contract to the Utility). Since January 2001, the DWR has been responsible for procuring electricity required to cover the Utilitys net open position. Revenues collected on behalf of the DWR and the related costs are not included in the Utilitys Consolidated Statement of Operations because the Utility acts only as the DWRs billing and collection agent. The decrease in DWR pass through revenues in 2002 was primarily due to a decrease in the Utilitys net open position, which was created by (1) an increase in electricity supplied by ESPs to direct access customers, and (2) an increase in the amount of electricity the Utility was able to purchase from QFs due to renegotiated payment terms through the Utilitys bankruptcy proceeding. The decrease in the Utilitys net open position in 2002 was partially offset by the accrual of an additional $369 million in pass through revenues in 2002 due to changes proposed by the DWR to the methodology used to calculate DWR remittances (see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Electric revenues in 2001 increased $472 million, or 6.9 percent, from 2000 mainly due to the CPUC authorized surcharges implemented in January and June 2001 and a decrease in direct access credits. The decrease in direct access credits was due to a decrease in total electricity provided to direct access customers by direct access ESPs. In 2001, energy service providers supplied approximately 3,982 GWh of electricity to direct access customers, compared to 9,662 GWh in 2000. The increase in electric revenues in 2001 was offset by revenues of $2,173 million passed through to the DWR in 2001, with no such amount in 2000. Cost of Electricity The following table shows a breakdown of the Utilitys cost of electricity: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Cost of purchased power $ 1,980 $ 3,224 $ 6,642 Fuel used in own generation 97 102 99 Other adjustments to cost of electricity (595 ) (552 ) Total cost of electricity $ 1,482 $ 2,774 $ 6,741 Average cost of purchased power per kWh $ 0.081 $ 0.143 $ 0.152 Total purchased power (GWh) 24,552 22,592 43,762 The cost of electricity in 2002 decreased $1,292 million, or 46.6 percent, from 2001. The decrease was attributable to the following factors: A decrease in the average cost of purchased power. The more favorable price reflected the significantly lower prices for electricity subsequent to the stabilization of the energy market in the second half of 2001. In addition, the average cost of electricity decreased because the Utility purchased more electricity from QFs, other generators, and irrigation districts, which provided electricity at a lower cost than the electricity the Utility purchased on the market in the beginning of 2001. In 2002, the DWR purchased all of the electricity needed to meet the Utilitys net open position, whereas in 2001 the Utility purchased the electricity itself through the PX market through the first half of January. As previously discussed, the Utility serves as a 108 collection agent for the DWR and therefore does not reflect the DWRs cost of electricity in its Consolidated Statement of Operations; and A net $595 million reduction to the cost of electricity recorded in March 2002 as a result of FERC and CPUC decisions, which allowed the Utility to reverse previously accrued California Independent System Operator (ISO) charges and to true up the amount of previously accrued pass through revenues payable to the DWR (see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Offsetting the above impacts were amounts recorded during 2001 that reduced purchased power costs by $552 million for the market value of terminated bilateral contracts with no similar amounts in 2002. The cost of electricity in 2001 decreased $3,967 million, or 58.8 percent, from 2000. This decrease was primarily due to the following two factors: After the first half of January 2001, the Utility no longer purchased electricity through the PX market. Instead, the DWR purchased electricity on behalf of the Utilitys customers to cover the Utilitys net open position; and A statewide energy conservation campaign led the Utilitys customers to use approximately 3 percent less energy than in 2000. In 2000, the Utility deferred $6.5 billion in under collected electric procurement costs. At the end of 2000, the Utility could no longer conclude that its under collected electric procurement costs and generation related regulatory assets were probable of recovery and therefore charged $6.9 billion to expense for these costs. There were no similar events in 2001. Natural Gas Revenues Natural gas revenues are made up of bundled gas revenues and transportation only revenues. The following table shows a breakdown of the Utilitys natural gas revenue: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Bundled gas revenues $ 1,882 $ 3,107 $ 2,229 Transportation service only revenue 316 375 338 Other 138 (346 ) 216 Total Natural Gas Revenues $ 2,336 $ 3,136 $ 2,783 In 2002, natural gas revenues decreased $800 million, or 25.5 percent, from 2001 primarily as a result of a lower average cost of natural gas, which was passed along to customers through lower rates. The average bundled price of natural gas sold during 2002 was $6.72 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) as compared to $10.55 per Mcf in 2001. The decrease in transportation service only revenue resulted primarily from a decrease in demand for gas transportation services by gas fired electric generators in California. Increases in other gas revenues were mainly due to a decrease in the deferral of natural gas revenue in 2002, which was attributed to the abnormally high price for natural gas in the beginning of 2001. The Utility tracks natural gas revenues and costs in natural gas balancing accounts. Over collections and under collections are deferred until they are refunded to or received from the Utilitys customers through rate adjustments. In 2001, natural gas revenues increased $353 million, or 12.7 percent, due to a higher average cost of natural gas, which was passed on to customers through higher rates. The average bundled price of natural gas sold during 2001 was $10.55 per Mcf, compared to $8.40 per Mcf in 2000. The increase was 109 offset by an approximate 4 percent decrease in usage in 2001 primarily as a result of conservation efforts. The increase in transportation service only revenue was primarily due to an increase in demand for gas transportation services by gas fired electric generators in California. Decreases in other gas revenues were mainly due to an increase in the deferral of natural gas revenue in 2001, which was attributed to the abnormally high price for natural gas in 2001. As previously discussed, over collections are deferred in natural gas balancing accounts until they are refunded to customers through rate adjustments. Cost of Natural Gas The following table shows a breakdown of the Utilitys cost of natural gas: (in millions) Year ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Cost of natural gas purchased $ 853 $ 1,593 $ 1,331 Cost of gas transportation 101 239 94 Total cost of natural gas $ 954 $ 1,832 $ 1,425 In 2002, the Utilitys cost of natural gas decreased $878 million, or 47.9 percent, from 2001 primarily due to a decrease in the average market price of natural gas purchased from $6.77 per Mcf in 2001 to $3.38 per Mcf in 2002. Additionally, the Utilitys cost to transport gas to its service area decreased significantly in 2002 due to $111 million in costs recognized in 2001 related to the involuntary termination of gas transportation hedges caused by a decline in the Utilitys credit rating. There were no similar events in 2002. In 2001, the Utilitys cost of natural gas increased $407 million, or 28.6 percent, primarily due to an increase in the average cost of natural gas from $5.07 per Mcf in 2000 to $6.77 per Mcf in 2001. Furthermore, as mentioned above, in 2001 the Utilitys cost to transport gas to its service area increased significantly due to $111 million in costs related to the involuntary termination of gas transportation hedges. Other Operating Expenses Operating and Maintenance In 2002, the Utilitys operating and maintenance expenses increased $432 million, or 18.1 percent, from 2001. This increase is mainly due to the following factors: Increases in employee benefit plan related expenses primarily due to unfavorable returns on plan investments and lower interest rates, which caused a decrease in discount rates on the Utilitys present valued benefit obligations; Increases in environmental liability estimates; Increases in customer accounts and service expenses related to the Utilitys new customer billing system; The amortization of previously deferred electric transmission related costs, which are now being collected in rates; and The deferral of over collected electric revenue associated with the rate reduction bonds. Prior to 2000, these revenues were used to finance the rate reduction implemented in 1998. 110 In 2001, the Utilitys operating and maintenance expenses decreased $302 million, or 11.2 percent, primarily due to a reserve for chromium litigation of $140 million recorded in 2000, and lower regulatory and generation related costs. Depreciation, Amortization, and Decommissioning Depreciation, amortization, and decommissioning expenses increased $297 million, or 33.1 percent, in 2002. This increase was due mainly to amortization of the rate reduction bond regulatory asset, which began in January 2002, and totaled $290 million through December 31, 2002. The rate reduction bond regulatory asset is discussed further in the "Regulatory Matters" section of this MD&A. Depreciation, amortization, and decommissioning expenses decreased $2,615 million, or 74.5 percent, in 2001 due to accelerated depreciation of generation related assets in 2000. Less depreciation was recorded in 2001 as the majority of the generation related assets had been fully depreciated after the acceleration. Interest Income In accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position (SOP) 90 7, the Utility reports reorganization interest income separately on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Such income primarily includes interest earned on cash accumulated during the proceedings. Interest income decreased $49 million, or 39.8 percent, in 2002. The decrease in interest income in 2002 was due in most part to lower average interest rates on the Utilitys short term investments. In 2001, the Utilitys interest income decreased $63 million, or 33.9 percent, compared to 2000 due primarily to the write off of generation related regulatory balancing account interest. The decrease was offset by increases in interest on short term investments and balancing accounts. Interest Expense In 2002, the Utilitys interest expense increased $14 million, or 1.4 percent, from 2001 due to the Utilitys bankruptcy proceeding, which has resulted in higher negotiated interest rates and an increased level of unpaid debts accruing interest. See the discussion of interest rates in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2001, the Utilitys interest expense increased $355 million, or 57.3 percent, compared to 2000 due to increased debt levels and higher interest rates as a result of the Utilitys credit rating downgrade and subsequent bankruptcy. Reorganization Fees and Expenses In accordance with SOP 90 7, the Utility reports reorganization fees and expenses separately on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Such costs primarily include professional fees for services in connection with Chapter 11 proceedings and totaled $155 million in 2002 and $97 million in 2001. PG&E NEG Overall Results The year ended 2002 included an expected loss on the disposal of USGenNE of $1.1 billion and on ET Canada of $25 million. Additionally, the earnings from operations of USGenNE, ET Canada, and Mountain View were reclassified to discontinued operations. USGenNE, ET Canada, and Mountain View Power Partners, LLC and Mountain View Power Partners II, LLC (collectively referred to as Mountain View) were determined to be Assets Held for Sale per SFAS No. 144. As such, their operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations and an evaluation of the value on an 111 asset by asset basis conducted. PG&E NEG determined that USGenNEs and ET Canadas book values exceeded their anticipated selling prices and as such recorded losses on disposal. Earnings from operations included in discontinued operations were $11 million or a decrease of $96 million principally due to USGenNEs unfavorable operating results and market conditions in New England. The year ended 2002 included a net loss for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $61 million. The cumulative effect was based on PG&E NEGs adoption as of April 1, 2002, of interpretations issued by the Derivatives Implementation Group (DIG), DIG C15 and DIG C16, reflecting the mark to market value of certain contracts that had previously been accounted for under the accrual basis as normal purchases and sales. PG&E NEGs income from continuing operations (after tax) was a loss of $2.2 billion in 2002 or a decrease of $2.3 billion from the prior year. The decline in pre tax operating income was mainly due to one time impairments, write offs and other charges previously discussed and taken during 2002 of $2.8 billion. PG&E NEGs net income (after discontinued operations and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle) was $171 million for the year ended 2001, an increase of $19 million from the year ended 2000. The year ended 2001 included earnings from discontinued operations related to USGenNE, Mountain View, and ET Canada of $107 million, or an increase of $8 million from 2000. In addition, the year ended 2000 included a loss from discontinued operations of $40 million related to losses on the disposal of PG&E Energy Services Corporation. The year ended 2001 included a net gain for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $9 million. The cumulative effect was based on an interpretation issued by the DIG C11 that clarified how certain commodity contracts should be treated. In applying this new DIG guidance, PG&E NEG determined that one of its derivative contracts no longer qualified for normal purchases and sales treatment and must be marked to market through earnings. PG&E NEGs income from continuing operations (after tax) was $55 million in 2001 or a decrease of $38 million from the prior year. The decline in pre tax operating income of $97 million in 2001 was primarily due to the sale of Pacific Gas Transmission Teco, Inc., and subsidiaries (collectively referred to as PG&E GTT) in December 2000 which provided operating income of $77 million in 2000, and a charge in the fourth quarter of 2000 of $60 million related to the termination of certain contracts resulting from the Enron bankruptcy (principally related to PG&E NEGs energy trading business). These declines were partially offset by the sale of a development project in the third quarter of 2001, which provided operating income of $23 million, and general improvement in operating margins in the Integrated Energy and Marketing Activities (Energy) segment. Net interest expense was $33 million lower in 2001 as compared to the prior year, principally due to increased capitalization of interest for projects under construction. Operating Revenues PG&E NEGs operating revenues were $2.1 billion for the year ended 2002, an increase of $155 million from the year ended 2001. These revenue increases occurred primarily in PG&E NEGs Energy segment principally due to new generation plants coming on line within the wholesale energy business. The principal drivers in the increase in PG&E NEGs Interstate Pipeline Operation (Pipeline) segments operating revenues, which increased $7 million, were due to the North Baja pipeline commencing operations and PG&E GTN contract termination settlements. These operating revenue increases in the Pipeline segment were slightly offset by weak pricing fundamentals on gas transportation to the California and Pacific Northwest gas markets compared to the same period last year. 112 PG&E NEGs operating revenues were $1.9 billion in 2001, a decrease of $1.2 billion or 39 percent from 2000. This decline in operating revenues occurred within both PG&E NEGs Energy and Pipeline segments. The decline in PG&E NEGs Energy segment of $329 million is mainly due to lower trade volumes and lower realized prices in the third and fourth quarter of 2001. These declines generally were due to higher commodity prices in the wake of the California energy crisis in the second half of 2000 and the decline in economic activity in the U.S. in the second half of 2001. The decline in PG&E NEGs Pipeline segment of $866 million is primarily due to the sale of PG&E GTT in December 2000. Operating Expenses PG&E NEGs operating expenses were $4.8 billion for the year ended 2002, an increase of $3 billion from the same period in the prior year. These increases occurred primarily in PG&E NEGs Energy segment, principally due to impairments, write offs, and other charges previously discussed of $2.8 billion. The cost of commodity sales and fuel increased $197 million in line with the increases in operating revenues, compressed spark spreads, and new generation plants coming on line within the wholesale energy business. Operations, maintenance and management costs increased $33 million in 2002 as compared to the same period last year primarily due to new plants coming on line. In addition, depreciation and amortization costs increased $15 million in the period also mainly due to new plants coming on line. Administrative and general costs increased in 2002 as compared to the same period last year due to charges associated with PG&E NEGs cost reduction and restructuring programs. These increases were slightly offset on a year to date basis by lower costs in the first half of 2002 associated with lower employee related expense. PG&E NEGs operating expenses were $1.8 billion in 2001, a decrease of $1.1 billion from 2000. This decline in operating expenses occurred within both PG&E NEGs Energy and Pipeline segments. The decline in PG&E NEGs Energy segment of $258 million is mainly due to lower trade volumes and lower realized prices achieved primarily in the third and fourth quarters of 2001. These declines generally were due to higher commodity prices in the wake of the California energy crisis in the second half of 2000, and the decline in economic activity in the U.S. in the second half of 2001. The decline in PG&E NEGs Pipeline segment of $792 million is primarily due to the sale of PG&E GTT in December 2000. INFLATION PG&E Corporation and the Utility prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This means PG&E Corporation and the Utility report operating results in terms of historical costs and do not evaluate the impact of inflation. Inflation affects construction costs, operating expenses, and interest charges. In addition, the Utilitys electric revenues do not reflect the impact of inflation due to the current electric rate freeze. However, PG&E Corporation and the Utility do not expect current inflation levels to have a material adverse impact on PG&E Corporations or the Utilitys financial position or results of operations. REGULATORY MATTERS A significant portion of PG&E Corporations operations is regulated by federal and state regulatory commissions. These commissions oversee service levels and, in certain cases, PG&E Corporations revenues and pricing for its regulated services. Utility The Utility is the only subsidiary with significant regulatory proceedings or issues at this time. These are discussed below. Regulatory proceedings associated with electric industry restructuring are further discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 113 DWR Revenue Requirement and Servicing Order In January 2001, the DWR began purchasing electricity on behalf of the Utilitys customers in accordance with a new state law, Assembly Bill (AB) 1X, that authorized the DWR to purchase electricity for California utility customers to the extent that it could not be supplied or purchased by the utilities (the amount of electricity needed to meet customers demand that cannot be provided by the IOUs, either through their own generation or by suppliers under contracts with the IOUs, is referred to as the net open position). The DWR initially purchased electricity on the spot market until it was able to enter into long term contracts for the supply of electricity. Under AB 1X, the DWR was prohibited from entering into new agreements to purchase electricity to meet the net open position of the California IOUs after December 31, 2002. The DWR pays for its costs of purchasing electricity from a revenue requirement charged to Utility ratepayers (power charge) and proceeds of the DWRs $11.3 billion bond financing completed in November 2002 (see "DWR Bond Charge" below). In February 2002, the CPUC approved a decision that set the statewide DWR revenue requirement for 2001 and 2002. In March 2002, the CPUC reallocated the amounts contained in the February 2002 decision among the customers of the three California IOUs. The March 2002 decision allocated $4.4 billion of a total statewide power charge revenue requirement of approximately $9.0 billion to the Utilitys customers. Of the $4.4 billion allocated to the customers of the Utility, approximately $1.8 billion related to 2002 power charges and approximately $2.6 billion related to 2001 power charges. In May 2002, the CPUC approved a servicing order between the Utility and the DWR, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Utility provides the transmission and distribution of the DWR purchased electricity; addresses billing, collection and related services on behalf of the DWR; and addresses the DWRs compensation to the Utility for providing these services. In October 2002, the DWR filed a proposed amendment to the CPUCs May 2002 servicing order. The DWRs proposed amendment changes the calculation that determines the amount of revenues that the Utility must pass through to the DWR. This proposed amendment would also be used to true up previous amounts passed through to the DWR as well as future payments. Under its statutory authority, the DWR may request the CPUC to order the utilities to implement such amendments, and the CPUC has approved such amendments in the past without significant change. In December 2002, the CPUC approved an operating order requiring the Utility to perform the operational, dispatch, and administrative functions for the DWRs allocated contracts beginning on January 1, 2003. (See "CPUC Operating Order" below.) The operating order, which applies prospectively, includes the DWRs proposed method of calculating the amount of revenues that the Utility must pass through to the DWR. As a result, as of December 31, 2002, the Utility has accrued an additional $369 million (pre tax) liability for pass through revenues for electricity provided by the DWR to the Utilitys customers in 2002 and 2001. A separate proceeding will consider a revision or true up for the revenue requirements remitted to the DWR for 2002 and 2001 costs, once final 2002 cost data is available. This true up proceeding is scheduled for April 2003. In December 2002, the CPUC issued a decision allocating approximately $2 billion of the DWRs 2003 power charge related revenue requirement to the Utilitys customers. This revenue requirement includes the costs associated with the DWR contracts allocated to the Utilitys customers by the CPUC in September 2002. The DWR plans to submit a revised 2003 power charge related revenue requirement to the CPUC in late March 2003. Before the DWRs 2003 statewide revenue requirement filing with the CPUC in August 2002, the Utility filed comments with the DWR alleging that major portions of the DWRs revenue requirements were not "just and reasonable" as required by AB 1X and that the DWR was not complying with the procedural requirements of AB 1X in making its determination. On August 26, 2002, the Utility filed with the DWR a motion for reconsideration of the DWRs determination that its revenue requirements 114 were "just and reasonable." The DWR denied the Utilitys motion on October 8, 2002. On October 17, 2002, the Utility filed a lawsuit in a California court asking the court to find that the DWRs revenue requirements had not been demonstrated to be "just and reasonable" and lawful, and that the DWR had violated the procedural requirements of AB 1X in making its determination. In part, the Utility based its allegations on the State of Californias petition pending before the FERC seeking to set aside many of the DWR contracts on the basis that they are not "just and reasonable." The Utility asked that the court order the DWRs revenue requirement determination be withdrawn as invalid, and that the DWR be precluded from imposing its revenue requirements on the Utility and its customers until it has complied with the law. No schedule has yet been set for consideration of the lawsuit. Until the CPUC modifies the curent frozen rate structure, changes to the DWRs 2003 revenue requirement may affect the Utilitys future earnings. Because the Utility acts as a collection agent for the DWR, amounts collected on behalf of the DWR (related to its revenue requirement) are excluded from the Utilitys revenues. DWR Bond Charge On October 24, 2002, the CPUC issued a decision that, in part, imposes bond charges to recover the DWRs bond costs from most bundled customers starting November 15, 2002, although the decision found that the Utility would not need to increase customers overall rates to incorporate the bond charge. The DWR bond charge also will be imposed on all direct access customers, as described below. On December 30, 2002, the CPUC revised the 2003 bond charge to $0.005 per kWh, effective January 6, 2003. The Utility expects to accrue bond related charges of approximately $340 million during the 12 months ending November 14, 2003. Until the CPUC implements bottoms up billing (billing for specific rate components) for the Utility, any bond charges will reduce the amount of revenue available to recover previously written off under collected purchased power costs and transition costs. Senate Bill 1976 Under AB 1X, the DWR is prohibited from entering into new agreements to purchase electricity to meet the net open position of the California IOUs after December 31, 2002. In September 2002, the Governor signed California SB 1976 into law. SB 1976 required that each California IOU submit, within 60 days after the CPUC allocated existing DWR contracts for electricity procurement to the customers of each California IOU, an electricity procurement plan to meet the residual net open position associated with that utilitys customer demand. SB 1976 requires that each procurement plan include one or more of the following features: A competitive procurement process under a format authorized by the CPUC, with the costs of procurement obtained in compliance with the authorized bidding format being recoverable in rates; A clear, achievable, and quantifiable incentive mechanism that establishes benchmarks for procurement and authorizes the IOUs to procure electricity from the market subject to comparison with the CPUC authorized benchmarks; or Upfront and achievable standards and criteria to determine the acceptability and eligibility for rate recovery of a proposed transaction and an expedited CPUC pre approval process for proposed bilateral contracts to ensure compliance with the individual utilitys procurement plan. SB 1976 provides that the CPUC may not approve the procurement plan if it finds the plan contains features or mechanisms, which would impair restoration of the IOUs creditworthiness or would lead to a deterioration of the IOUs creditworthiness. SB 1976 also indicates that procurement activities in compliance with an approved procurement plan will not be subject to after the fact 115 reasonableness review. The CPUC is permitted to establish a regulatory process to verify and ensure that each contract was administered in accordance with its terms and that contract disputes are resolved reasonably. A central feature of the SB 1976 regulatory framework is its direction to the CPUC to create new electric procurement balancing accounts to track and allow recovery of the differences between recorded revenues and costs incurred under an approved procurement plan. The CPUC must review the revenues and costs associated with the IOUs electric procurement plan at least semi annually and adjust rates or order refunds, as appropriate, to properly amortize the balancing accounts. Until January 1, 2006, the CPUC must establish the schedule for amortizing the over collections or under collections in the electric procurement balancing accounts so that the aggregate over collections or under collections reflected in the accounts do not exceed 5 percent of the IOUs actual recorded generation revenues for the prior calendar year, excluding revenues collected on behalf of the DWR. Mandatory semi annual review and adjustment of the balancing accounts will continue until January 1, 2006, after which time the CPUC is required to conduct electric procurement balancing account reviews and adjust retail ratemaking amortization schedules for the balancing accounts as the CPUC deems appropriate and in a manner consistent with the requirements of SB 1976 for timely recovery of electric procurement costs. On January 1, 2003, the California IOUs resumed the function of procuring electricity to meet that portion of their customers needs that is not covered by the combination of the allocation of electricity from existing DWR contracts and the IOUs own electric resources and contracts. Allocation of DWR Electricity to Customers of the IOUs Consistent with applicable law and CPUC orders, since 2001, the Utility and the other California IOUs have acted as the billing and collection agents for the DWRs sales of its electricity to retail customers. In September 2002, the CPUC issued a decision to allocate the electricity provided under existing DWR contracts to the customers of the IOUs. This decision required the Utility, along with the other IOUs, to begin performing all the day to day scheduling, dispatch, and administrative functions associated with the DWR contracts allocated to the IOUs portfolios on January 1, 2003. The DWR retains legal and financial responsibility for these contracts. Under AB 1X, the CPUC has no review authority over the reasonableness of procurement costs in the DWRs contracts, although the Utilitys administration of DWR contracts allocated to its customers and its dispatch of the electricity associated with those contracts may be subject to reasonableness reviews. Under a December 2002 interim opinion, the CPUC established a maximum annual procurement disallowance equal to twice the Utilitys annual administrative costs of managing procurement activities, including the administration and dispatch of electricity associated with DWR allocated contracts. The Utility anticipates that its annual administrative cost of managing procurement activities in 2003 will be approximately $18 million. The DWR has stated publicly that it intends to transfer full legal title of, and responsibility for, the DWR electricity contracts to the IOUs as soon as possible. However, SB 1976 does not contemplate a transfer of title of the DWR contracts to the IOUs. In addition, the operating order issued by the CPUC in December 2002 implementing the Utilitys operational and scheduling responsibility with respect to the DWR allocated contracts specifies that the DWR will retain legal and financial responsibility for the contracts and that the December 2002 order does not result in an assignment of the DWR allocated contracts to the Utility. However, there can be no assurance that either the State of California or the CPUC will not provide the DWR with authority to affect such a transfer of legal title in the future. The Utility has informed the CPUC, the DWR, and the State of California that the Utility would vigorously oppose any attempt to transfer the DWR allocated contracts to the Utility without its consent. 116  CPUC Operating Order In December 2002, the CPUC adopted an operating order requiring the Utility to perform the operational, dispatch, and administrative functions for the DWRs allocated contracts beginning on January 1, 2003. (Similar operating orders were also adopted for the other two California IOUs.) The operating order sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Utility will administer the DWR allocated contracts and requires the Utility to dispatch all of the generating assets within its portfolio on a least cost basis for the benefit of the Utilitys customers. The order specifies that the DWR will retain legal and financial responsibility for the DWR allocated contracts and that the order does not result in an assignment of the allocated DWR contracts to the Utility. Operating Agreement The CPUC had previously ordered the IOUs to work with the DWR to submit to the CPUC proposed operating agreements governing the DWR allocated contracts. When the operating orders were issued, the DWR and the IOUs had not yet finalized their separate operating agreements. In its decision issuing the operating orders, the CPUC noted that if the IOUs and the DWR eventually reach mutual agreement, the CPUC would consider modifying its decision on an expedited basis to terminate the operating orders and approve the operating agreements, assuming that the operating agreements adopted a framework that was substantially similar to the one imposed by the operating orders. On December 20, 2002, the Utility and the DWR executed an operating agreement following several months of negotiation. The agreement provides that it will not become effective unless approved by the CPUC. The Utility has submitted the agreement to the CPUC for approval and has requested that the CPUC terminate the operating order and approve the operating agreement. Although the operating order and the operating agreement have fundamentally the same objectives, the operating agreement, among other things: Provides an adequate contractual basis for establishing a limited agency relationship between the Utility and the DWR; Limits the Utilitys contractual liability to the DWR and other parties to $5 million per year plus 10 percent of damages in excess of $5 million with a limit of $50 million over the term of the agreement; and Clarifies that the DWR does not intend to, nor is it the DWRs responsibility to, review the Utilitys least cost dispatch performance, other than to verify compliance with the supplier contracts. On December 30, 2002, the Utility filed an application for rehearing of the operating order decision with the CPUC. On January 1, 2003, after having reserved all rights associated with challenges to the operating order, the Utility commenced providing contract administration, scheduling and dispatch services to the DWR under the CPUCs operating order. Approval of Procurement Plan In October 2002, the CPUC issued a decision ordering the Utility to resume full procurement on January 1, 2003. In December 2002, the CPUC issued an interim opinion adopting the revised electricity procurement plan for 2003 that the Utility submitted in 2002 and authorized the Utility to enter into contracts designed to hedge its residual net open position for the first quarter of 2004. The CPUC found that the maximum annual procurement disallowance exposure that each IOU should face for all of its procurement activities should be limited to twice the IOUs annual administrative costs of managing procurement activities, including its administration and dispatch of electricity associated with DWR contracts allocated to its customers. The Utility anticipates that its annual administrative costs of managing procurement activities in 2003 will be approximately $18 million. While the Utilitys procurement plan covered procurement activities only for the 2003 calendar year, the CPUC authorized the IOUs to extend their planning into the first quarter of 2004. 117 Effective January 1, 2003, the Utility established the Energy Resource Recovery Account (ERRA) to record and recover electricity costs, excluding the DWRs electricity contract costs, associated with the Utilitys authorized procurement plan. Electricity costs recorded in the ERRA include, but are not limited to, fuel costs for retained generation, QF contracts, inter utility contracts, ISO charges, irrigation district contracts, other power purchase agreements, bilateral contracts, forward hedges, pre payments, collateral requirements associated with procurement (including disposition of surplus electricity), and ancillary services. The Utility offsets these costs by reliability must run revenues, the Utilitys allocation of surplus sales revenues and the ERRA revenue requirement. The CPUC has approved, on a preliminary basis, a starting ERRA revenue requirement of $2.0 billion for the Utility. The CPUC has authorized the Utility to file an application to change retail electricity rates at any time that its forecasts indicate it will face an under collection of electricity procurement costs in excess of 5 percent of its prior years generation and procurement revenues, excluding amounts collected for the DWR. The Utility currently estimates that its 5 percent threshold amount will be approximately $224 million. In February 2003, the Utility filed its 2003 ERRA forecast application requesting that the CPUC reset the Utilitys 2003 ERRA revenue requirement to $1.4 billion and that the ERRA trigger threshold of $224 million be adopted. The CPUC will examine the Utilitys forecast of costs for 2003 and will finalize the Utilitys starting ERRA revenue requirement and ERRA trigger threshold when it reviews the Utilitys ERRA application. The Utility intends to submit its long term procurement plan, covering the next 20 years by April 1, 2003, and the CPUC has stated that it plans to issue a final decision on the Utilitys long term procurement plan in November 2003. In April 2001, the California Public Utilities Code was amended to require that the CPUC ensure that errors in estimates of demand elasticity or sales by the Utility do not result in material over or under collections of costs by the Utility. The Utility intends to address implementation of this new law in connection with pending proceedings at the CPUC relating to recovery of components of its costs of service. 2001 Annual Transition Cost Proceeding: Review of Reasonableness of Electricity Procurement On January 11, 2002, as directed by the CPUC, the Utility filed a report with the CPUC detailing the reasonableness of the Utilitys electric procurement and generation scheduling and dispatch activities for the period July 1, 2000, through June 30, 2001. In this proceeding, the CPUC will review the reasonableness of the Utilitys procurement of wholesale electricity from the PX and ISO during the height of the 2000 2001 California energy crisis. With the exception of a limited right to purchase electricity from third parties beginning in August 2000, all of the Utilitys wholesale electric purchases during this period were required to be made exclusively from or through the PX and ISO markets pursuant to FERC approved tariffs. Prior CPUC decisions have determined that such purchases should be deemed reasonable. In addition, the Utilitys complaint against the CPUC Commissioners asserts that the costs of such purchases are recoverable in the Utilitys retail rates without further review by the CPUC under the federal filed rate doctrine. However, a CPUC administrative law judge is asserting jurisdiction to review the reasonableness of the Utilitys wholesale electric purchases from the PX and ISO in the proceeding. A report from the CPUCs Office of Ratepayer Advocates (ORA) regarding the Utilitys procurement activities for the covered period is due April 28, 2003. It is possible this review could result in disallowance of certain costs associated with the Utilitys purchases from the PX and ISO during the 2000 2001 period. Retained Generation Revenue Requirement The CPUC has approved a 2002 revenue requirement of $3 billion for recovery of costs of generation the Utility retains, including electric purchase expenses, depreciation, operating expenses, taxes, and return on investment, based on the net regulatory value as of December 31, 2000. 118 The CPUC has allowed the Utility to recover reasonable costs incurred in 2002 for its own electric generation, subject to reasonableness review in the Utilitys 2003 General Rate Case (GRC) proceeding. The decision does not change retail electric rates and the Utility does not expect it to have an impact on the Utilitys results of operations. Instead, the decision defers consideration of future rate changes until the CPUC addresses the status of the retail rate freeze. The CPUC also deferred addressing recovery of the Utilitys past unrecovered generation related costs. The CPUC is considering the Utilitys 2003 retained generation revenue requirement as part of the Utilitys 2003 GRC proceeding. The Utilitys 2003 GRC application requested an increase in non fuel generation revenue requirements of $149 million over the amount authorized for 2002. This requested revenue requirement increases the Utilitys estimated fuel and procurement costs recorded in the ERRA (see "Approval of Procurement Plan" above), and the DWRs power charges. Divestiture of Retained Generation Facilities The California Legislature passed AB 6X in January 2001 prohibiting utilities from divesting their remaining power plants before January 1, 2006. The Utility believes this law does not supersede or repeal existing provisions of AB 1890, Californias 1996 electric industry restructuring legislation, requiring the CPUC to establish a market value for the Utilitys remaining generating assets by the end of 2001, based on appraisal, sale or other divestiture. The Utility has filed comments on this matter with the CPUC. However, the CPUC has not yet issued a decision. On January 2, 2002, the CPUC issued a decision finding that AB 6X had materially affected the implementation of AB 1890. The CPUC scheduled further proceedings to address the impact of AB 6X on the AB 1890 rate freeze for the Utility and to determine the extent and disposition of the Utilitys remaining unrecovered transition costs. In its November 2002 decision regarding surcharge revenues (see "One Cent, Three Cent, and Half Cent Surcharge Revenues" below), the CPUC reiterated that it had yet to decide when the rate freeze ended and the disposition of any under collected costs remaining at the end of the rate freeze. On January 17, 2002, the Utility filed an administrative claim with the State of California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board, or Claims Board, alleging that AB 6X violates the Utilitys statutory rights under AB 1890. The Utilitys claim seeks compensation for the denial of its right to at least a $4.1 billion market value of its retained generating facilities. On March 7, 2002, the Claims Board formally denied the Utilitys claim. Having exhausted remedies before the Claims Board, on September 6, 2002, the Utility filed a complaint against the State of California for breach of contract in the California Superior Court. On January 9, 2003, the Superior Court granted the States request to dismiss the Utilitys complaint, finding that AB 1890 did not constitute a contract. The Utility has 60 days to file an appeal and intends to do so. Direct Access Suspension and Cost Responsibility Surcharge Until September 2001, California utility customers could choose to buy their electricity from the Utility (bundled customers) or from an alternative power supplier through "direct access" service. Direct access customers receive distribution and transmission service from the Utility, but purchase electricity (generation) from their alternative provider. In September 2001, the CPUC, pursuant to AB 1X, suspended the right of retail end use customers to choose direct access service, thereby preventing additional customers from entering into contracts to purchase electricity from alternative providers. Customers that entered into direct access contracts on or before September 20, 2001, were permitted to remain on direct access. In November 2002, the CPUC issued a decision assessing an exit fee, or non bypassable charge, on direct access customers to avoid a shift of costs from direct access customers to bundled service customers. The decision establishes the Cost Responsibility Surcharge (CRS) and imposes a cap of $0.027 per kWh. The CPUC required the utilities to implement this surcharge on January 1, 2003. The CPUC has 119 indicated that it will establish an expedited review schedule to determine whether the cap should be adjusted. The CPUC also has indicated that it will reach a decision on whether this cap should be adjusted, and whether trigger mechanisms for adjusting the cap should be established, by July 1, 2003. The Utility implemented the $0.027 per kWh CRS on January 1, 2003. (See "Direct Access Credits" below.) Funds remitted under the CRS will be applied first to the DWR, then to the Utilitys ongoing procurement and generation costs. Direct access customers who have returned to bundled service will be responsible for their share of the unrecovered costs resulting from the CRS. To the extent the cap results in an under collection of DWR charges, the shortfall would have to be remitted to the DWR from bundled customers funds. On an interim basis while the CPUC examines a long term plan for financing the CRS, interest on under collections will be assessed at the interest rate paid by the DWR on bonds issued to finance electricity purchases. The Utility does not expect that the CPUCs implementation of this decision or the level of the CRS cap will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Direct Access Credits When the direct access credit was established, direct access customers paid the full bundled rate less a credit based on the Schedule PX price. Under this methodology, when the Schedule PX price exceeded the bundled rates, the direct access customer received a bill credit. As a result, during the energy crisis, direct access customers did not contribute to the Utilitys transition cost recovery nor did they pay for transmission and distribution services. Under the interim direct access credit methodology in place since the PX ceased operations in January 2001, the Utility has calculated the Schedule PX price using an estimate of its cost of service for its retained generation and the Utilitys generation component of the frozen rate for energy provided by the DWR. Beginning January 1, 2003, the Utility reduced this direct access credit by the additional direct access exit fee of up to the $0.027 per kWh CRS cap. Additionally, direct access customers paid the one cent surcharge in 2001 and 2002, but were exempt from the three cent surcharge and half cent surcharge. In May 2001, the Utility also requested authorization to charge direct access customers for the three cent surcharge. One party filed a protest indicating that direct access customers should not pay the three cent surcharge, nor the one cent surcharge beginning June 1, 2001. The one cent surcharge generates approximately $80 million in revenues per year from direct access customers. The CPUC has not yet ruled on this issue. It is unclear how or whether direct access customers would be reimbursed if the CPUC rules that direct access customers should not have paid this charge. In November 2002, the CPUC determined that direct access customers should pay a portion of DWRs costs beginning in 2003 to keep bundled customers indifferent as to the level of direct access. As a result, on January 1, 2003, direct access customers began paying a $0.027 per kWh surcharge, and they no longer pay the $0.01 per kWh surcharge. On May 31, 2002, the Utility filed its proposal for calculating the post PX direct access credit that would continue allowing direct access customers to receive a credit for generation related costs avoided as a result of their self procurement. Specifically, the Utility proposed that the credit be based on avoided procurement costs. The Utility also proposed to move to bottoms up billing (billing for specific rate components rather than a frozen rate) for direct access customers as quickly as possible. Under bottoms up billing, direct access customers rates would be calculated based on the services they actually take from the Utility, such as transmission and distribution, the fixed transition amount related to the rate reduction bond repayment (if applicable), and any non bypassable charges that the CPUC approves including nuclear decommissioning and public purpose programs, as well as the direct access Customer Responsibility Surcharge described above. Consequently, direct access customers would pay at least the same non procurement charges that are applicable to bundled customers. 120 The Utility proposed to adjust the direct access credit retroactively to December 28, 2000, using the Dow Jones Index after January 18, 2001, and to limit the amount of the credit to the price cap established by the FERC. One Cent, Three Cent, and Half Cent Surcharge Revenues In the first quarter of 2001, the CPUC authorized the Utility to begin collecting energy purchase surcharge revenues totaling $0.04 per kWh (composed of a $0.01 per kWh surcharge revenue approved in January and a $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenue approved in March). The CPUC ordered the Utility to apply these new rates only to "ongoing procurement costs" and "future power purchases." Although the CPUC authorized the $0.03 per kWh surcharge in March 2001, the Utility did not begin collecting the revenues until June 2001. As a result, in May 2001, the CPUC authorized the Utility to collect an additional $0.005 per kWh surcharge revenue for 12 months to make up for the time lag in collection of the $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenues. Although the collection of this "half cent surcharge" was originally scheduled to end on May 31, 2002, the CPUC issued a resolution ordering the Utility to continue collecting the half cent surcharge until further consideration by the CPUC. The Utility had recorded a regulatory liability for these $0.01 per kWh and $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenues when such surcharges exceeded ongoing procurement costs and a regulatory liability for the $0.005 per kWh surcharge revenues billed subsequent to May 31, 2002. These regulatory liabilities totaled $222 million as of September 30, 2002, and $65 million as of December 31, 2001. In November 2002, the CPUC approved a decision modifying the restrictions on the use of revenues generated by the surcharges to permit the revenues to be used for the purpose of securing or restoring the Utilitys reasonable financial health, as determined by the CPUC. The CPUC will determine in other proceedings how the surcharge revenues can be used, whether there is any cost or other basis to support specific surcharge levels, and whether the resulting rates are just and reasonable. After the CPUC determines when the AB 1890 rate freeze ended, the CPUC will determine the extent and disposition of the Utilitys under collected costs, if any, remaining at the end of the rate freeze. If the CPUC determines that the Utility recovered revenues in excess of its transition costs or in excess of other permitted uses, the CPUC may require the Utility to refund such excess revenues. In a case currently pending before it relating to the CPUCs settlement with Southern California Edison (SCE), another California IOU, the Supreme Court of California is considering whether the CPUC has the authority to enter into a settlement which allows SCE to recover under collected procurement and transition costs in light of the provisions of AB 1890. The Utility cannot predict the outcome of this case or whether the CPUC or others would attempt to apply any ruling to the Utility. If the Utility is ordered to refund material amounts to ratepayers, the Utilitys financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In December 2002, the CPUC issued a decision authorizing the Utility to stop tracking amounts related to the $0.01 per kWh and $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenues as a separate regulatory liability and instead record them as a reduction of under collected purchased power costs and transition costs. As a result, in January 2003, the Utility filed a letter with the CPUC requesting to withdraw its regulatory liability account used to track $0.01 per kWh and $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenues in excess of ongoing procurement costs. Based on this December 2002 CPUC decision and an agreement between the CPUC and SCE, in which SCE was allowed to use its half cent surcharge to offset its DWR revenue requirement, the Utility reversed its $222 million of regulatory liabilities related to the $0.01 per kWh and $0.03 per kWh surcharge revenues and the $0.005 per kWh surcharge revenues during the fourth quarter of 2002. (Of this amount, $157 million was originally recorded as a regulatory liability during 2002; as such, the reversal of this amount has no impact on current year earnings). 121 1999 GRC Through a GRC proceeding, the CPUC authorizes an amount known as "base revenues" to be collected from ratepayers to recover the Utilitys basic business and operational costs for its gas and electric distribution operations. The 1999 GRC decision ordered an audit to assess the contribution of the Utilitys 1999 electric and gas distribution capital additions to system reliability, capacity, and adequacy of service. The audit began in February 2002 and a final report was issued on November 8, 2002. The final report concludes, "in general the [Utilitys] 1999 overall capital expenditure program appears quite acceptable." The final report offers recommendations to improve the Utilitys distribution capital investment process, but recommends no adjustments to the Utilitys distribution rate base. In October 2001, the CPUC reopened the record in the 1999 GRC to review the Utilitys actual 1998 capital spending on electric distribution compared with the forecast used to determine 1999 rates. This would result in an adjustment of the adopted 1998 capital spending forecast level to conform to the 1998 recorded level. The Utility does not expect a material impact on its financial position or results of operations from the remaining proceedings. On December 1, 2002, the CPUC issued a decision further modifying the 1999 GRC decision that prospectively adopted a $10.6 million downward annual adjustment to supervision costs in customer records and collection expenses. There was no material impact on the Utilitys financial position or results of operations. 2003 GRC In the 2003 GRC, the CPUC will determine the amount of authorized base revenues the Utility can collect from ratepayers to recover its basic business and operational costs for gas and electric distribution operations for 2003 through 2005. On November 8, 2002, the Utility requested a $447 million increase in its electric distribution revenue requirements and a $105 million increase in its gas distribution revenue requirements, over the current authorized amounts. The Utility also will seek an attrition rate adjustment (ARA) increase for 2004 and 2005. The ARA mechanism is designed to avoid a reduction in earnings in years between GRCs to reflect increases in rate base and expenses. The electric distribution revenue requirement increase would not increase overall bundled electric rates over their current authorized levels. However, the gas bill for a typical residential customer would rise by approximately 2.6 percent or $0.99 per month. Additionally, as directed by the CPUC in the Utilitys 2002 retained generation proceeding (see "Retained Generation Revenue Requirement" above), the Utility submitted testimony supporting the costs of operating the Utilitys generation facilities and fuel and purchased power costs. The Utility requested an increase of approximately $61 million over the interim 2002 retained generation revenue requirement authorized by the CPUC. On October 25, 2002, the CPUC issued a decision ordering the Utility to resume the procurement function on January 1, 2003. That decision also directed the Utility to amend its GRC application to remove certain generation related fuel and purchased power costs from its GRC and instead to include them in another CPUC proceeding. In its GRC, the Utility forecasts a decrease in these costs in 2003. This decrease offsets the forecast increase in costs to operate the Utilitys generation facilities. Removing the fuel and purchase power from the generation related revenue requirement set forth in the GRC would result in an increase in the forecast generation related revenue requirement of approximately $80 million to $90 million. On December 17, 2002, the CPUC granted the Utilitys request that the revenue requirement established in the 2003 GRC be effective January 1, 2003, even though the CPUC will not issue a final decision on the 2003 GRC until sometime after that date. The Utility cannot predict what amount of revenue requirements, if any, the CPUC will authorize for the 2003 through 2005 period. The CPUC Commissioner assigned to the 2003 GRC has adopted a schedule for this proceeding that includes a target date for a final decision of February 5, 2004. 122 2002 ARA Request In April 2002, the CPUC conditionally authorized a request by the Utility for interim attrition relief and made any attrition relief ultimately granted effective as of April 22, 2002. In June 2002, the Utility filed its 2002 ARA application, requesting a $76.7 million increase to its annual electric distribution revenue requirement, and a $19.5 million increase to its annual gas distribution revenue requirement. In December 2002, a proposed decision was issued that would deny this request. The Utility filed comments in late December 2002 arguing that the proposed decision was based on a fundamental misunderstanding of the facts. In February 2003, an alternate proposed decision was issued that would grant a $63.5 million increase to the Utilitys annual electric distribution revenue requirement, and a $10.3 million increase to the Utilitys annual gas distribution revenue requirement. A final decision is expected to be issued in the first quarter of 2003. In the 2003 GRC, the CPUC asked parties to comment on the Utilitys need for a 2002 ARA proceeding. The Utility informed the CPUC in November 2001 that the Utility would need a 2002 ARA to recover escalating electric and gas distribution service costs. Cost of Capital Proceedings Each year, the Utility files an application with the CPUC to determine the authorized rate of return the Utility may earn on its electric and gas distribution assets. On November 7, 2002, the CPUC issued a final decision in the Utilitys 2003 Cost of Capital proceeding that retained the Utilitys return on common equity (ROE) at the current authorized level of 11.22 percent. This final decision also increased the Utilitys authorized cost of debt to 7.57 percent from 7.26 percent, and held in place the current authorized capital structure of 48 percent common equity, 46.2 percent long term debt, and 5.8 percent equity. The final decision also holds open the case to address the impact on the Utilitys ROE, costs of debt and preferred stock, and ratemaking capital structure of the implementation and financing of a bankruptcy plan of reorganization. The Utility is required to file an advice letter within 30 days of completing any such financing to request authority to true up its test year 2003 ratemaking capital structure, long term debt and preferred stock cost, risks, and ROE. The Utility does not expect a material impact on the Utilitys financial position or results of operations from the remaining proceedings. FERC Prospective Price Mitigation Relief In response to the unprecedented increase in wholesale electricity prices during 2000 and 2001, the FERC issued a series of orders in the spring and summer of 2001 and July 2002 aimed at mitigating future extreme wholesale energy prices. These orders established a cap on bids for real time electricity and ancillary services of $250 per megawatt hour (MWh) and established various automatic mitigation procedures. Recently, the FERC proposed to adopt a safety net bid cap as part of the mitigation plan for wholesale energy markets and has requested comments on the appropriate value for such a bid cap. Also, in June and July 2001, the FERCs chief administrative law judge conducted settlement negotiations among power sellers, the State of California, and the California IOUs in an attempt to resolve disputes regarding past electric sales. Various parties, including the Utility and the State of California, are seeking up to $8.9 billion in refunds for electricity overcharges on behalf of buyers. The negotiations did not result in a settlement, but the judge recommended that the FERC conduct further hearings to determine possible refunds and what the power sellers and buyers are each owed. On December 12, 2002, a FERC administrative law judge issued an initial decision finding that power companies overcharged the utilities, the State of California and other buyers from October 2, 2000 to June 2001 by $1.8 billion, but that California buyers still owe the power companies $3 billion, leaving $1.2 billion in unpaid bills. The time period reviewed in the FERC hearings excludes the claims for refunds for overcharges that occurred before October 2, 2000, and after June 2001 when the DWR entered into contracts to buy electricity. Additional hearings are scheduled to conclude in February 2003. 123 The Utility has recorded $1.8 billion of generator claims made in its bankruptcy case as Liabilities Subject to Compromise. If the FERC administrative law judges initial recommendation is upheld by the FERC, these claims would be reduced to approximately $1 billion based on the re calculation of market prices according to the refund methodology recommended in the initial decision. After the FERC considers any additional evidence that may be presented, if the FERC determines that time periods before October 2, 2000, should be considered, or that additional market transactions or a different refund methodology are appropriate, such decisions could materially increase or decrease the amount of generator claims for which the Utility is determined to be liable. The Utility cannot predict the ultimate amount of generator claims for which it could be liable. The Utility also sold generation into the ISO and PX markets in the relevant time period. The amount of generator claims for which the Utility is determined to be liable would be net of any amounts owed to the Utility for such sales. The Utility cannot predict when the FERC will issue a decision, nor can it predict whether a refund will be ordered or the amount the Utility might receive. FERC Transmission Rate Cases Electric transmission revenues and both wholesale and retail transmission rates are regulated by the FERC. On January 29, 2003, the FERC approved a settlement that allows the Utility to recover in electric transmission rates $292 million on an annual basis from March 31, 1998, until October 29, 1998, and $316 million on an annual basis from October 30, 1998, until May 30, 1999. During that period, somewhat higher rates were collected, subject to refund. As a result of this settlement, the Utility will refund $30 million it had accrued for potential refunds related to the 14 month period ended May 30, 1999. The transmission rates charged to electric retail and new wholesale transmission customers are adjusted for other transmission revenue credits related to ISO congestion management charges and other transmission related services billed by the ISO and remitted to the Utility as a transmission owner. The Utility currently has other transmission rate cases pending with the FERC including: An application that would allow the Utility to recover $545 million in electric retail transmission rates annually. Filed on January 13, 2003, the 44 percent increase over the revenue requirement currently in effect is mainly attributable to significant capital additions made to the Utilitys transmission system to accommodate load growth, to maintain the infrastructure, and to ensure safe and reliable service. In addition, the request includes a 15 year useful life for transmission plant coming into service in 2003 and a return on equity of 13.5 percent. The January 13 filing date will allow proposed rates to go into effect, subject to refund, no later than August 13, 2003; and A proposal for the FERC to increase the Utilitys electricity and transmission related rates charged to the WAPA. The majority of the requested increase is related to passing through market electricity prices billed to the Utility by the ISO and others for services, which apply to WAPA under a pre existing contract between the Utility and WAPA. The FERC denied this request, as well as a request for a rehearing. The Utility has appealed the denial of its request for a rehearing to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Pending a decision from the Court, until December 31, 2004, the date the WAPA contract expires, the Utility will continue to calculate WAPAs rates on a yearly basis using the formula specified in WAPAs contract. Any revenue shortfall or benefit resulting from this contract is included in rates through the end of the contract period as a purchased power cost. The Utility cannot estimate the difference between its cost to meet its obligations to WAPA and revenues it receives from WAPA because both the purchase price and the amount of energy that WAPA will need from the Utility through the end of the contract are uncertain. Scheduling Coordinator Costs The Utility serves as the scheduling coordinator to schedule transmission with the ISO for the Utilitys existing wholesale transmission customers. The ISO bills the Utility for providing certain 124 services associated with these contracts. These ISO charges are referred to as the "scheduling coordinator (SC) costs." These costs historically have been tracked in the transmission revenue balancing account (TRBA) in order to recover these costs from retail and new wholesale transmission customers (TO Tariff customers). On August 5, 2002, the FERC ruled that the Utility should refund to TO Tariff customers the scheduling coordinator costs that the Utility collected from them. In November 2002, the FERC denied the Utilitys request for rehearing. On December 9, 2002, the Utility appealed the FERCs decision in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. In the absence of an order from the FERC granting recovery of these costs in the TRBA, the Utility has made accounting entries to reflect the SC costs as accounts receivable under the Scheduling Coordinator Services (SCS) Tariff described below. In January 2000, the FERC accepted a filing by the Utility to establish the SCS Tariff. The SCS Tariff was filed to serve as an alternative mechanism for recovery of the SC costs from existing wholesale customers if the Utility was ultimately unable to recover these costs in the TRBA. The FERC also conditionally granted the Utilitys request that the SCS Tariff be effective retroactive to March 31, 1998. However, the FERC suspended the procedural schedule until the final decision was issued regarding the inclusion of SC costs in the TRBA. In September 2002, the Utility filed a notice with the FERC indicating its intent to request that the FERC resume the SCS Tariff proceeding if the request for rehearing of the FERCs August 5 order was not granted. For the period beginning April 1998 through December 31, 2002, the Utility transferred $107 million of scheduling coordinator costs from the TRBA to accounts receivable net of a $66 million reserve for potential uncollectible costs. The Utility also has disputed approximately $27 million of these costs as incorrectly billed by the ISO. Any refunds that ultimately may be made by the ISO would offset the accounts receivable and corresponding reserve. The Utility does not expect the outcome of this proceeding to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Gas Accord II In 1998, the Utility implemented a ratemaking pact called the Gas Accord, separating its gas transportation and storage services from its distribution services, and changing the terms of service and rate structure for gas transportation. The Gas Accord allows residential and small commercial customers (core customers) to purchase gas from competing suppliers, establishes an incentive mechanism whereby the Utility recovers its core procurement costs, and establishes gas transportation rates through 2002 and gas storage rates through March 2003. Under the Gas Accord, the Utility is at risk for recovery of its gas transportation and storage costs and does not have regulatory balancing account protection for over or under collections of revenues. Under the Gas Accord, the Utility sells a portion of the transportation and storage capacity at competitive market based rates. Revenues are sensitive to changes in the weather, natural gas fired generation and price spreads between two delivery or pricing points. On October 9, 2001, the Utility asked the CPUC to extend the terms and conditions of the existing Gas Accord for two years and to maintain current gas transportation and storage rates during the extension. In August 2002, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement among the Utility and other parties that provided for a one year extension of its existing gas transportation and storage rates. The settlement also provided for a one year extension of terms and conditions of service, including the Core Procurement Incentive Mechanism (for further discussion see "Utility Natural Gas Commodity Price Risk"), as well as rules governing contract extensions and an open season for new contracts. The Gas Accord II settlement left open to subsequent litigation the issues raised in the application in so far as they relate to the second year of the two year application. In October 2002, the assigned CPUC administrative law judge issued a ruling that granted, in part, the Utilitys motion to postpone the procedural schedule for litigation of the unresolved issues. In 125 January 2003, the Utility filed an amended application proposing to permanently retain the Gas Accord market structure, and requested a $55 million increase in the Utilitys gas transmission rates for 2004 and storage rates for the period from April 1, 2004, to March 31, 2005. This request represents a 12.9 percent increase in the Utilitys revenue requirement and a 13.4 percent return on equity. The existing gas transportation and storage rates will continue until the CPUC approves such changes. The Gas Accord II proposal includes rates set based on a demand or throughput forecast basis. In addition it proposes that, at the beginning of the adopted Gas Accord II agreement period, a contract extension and an open season be held for any uncontracted capacity rights. The Utility may experience a material reduction in operating revenues (1) if the Utility were unable to renew or replace existing transportation contracts at the beginning or throughout the Gas Accord II period, (2) the Utility were to renew or replace those contracts on less favorable terms than adopted by the CPUC, or (3) overall demand for transportation and storage services were less than adopted by the CPUC in setting rates. In any of these cases, the Utilitys financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Utility cannot predict what the outcome of this litigation will be, or whether the outcome will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. El Paso Capacity Decision In May 2002, the FERC directed El Paso Natural Gas Company (El Paso) to change the way it allocates space on its pipeline. The order required shippers east of California with capacity rights on El Pasos pipeline to convert their capacity rights from unlimited "full requirement" to a limited contract demand amount of firm capacity. These shippers had to decide by July 31, 2002, how much El Paso capacity they would need in demand contracts and how much capacity they would give up. In July 2002, the CPUC required California IOUs to sign up for El Paso pipeline capacity given up by the shippers and not subscribed to by replacement shippers serving California. The CPUC pre approved such costs as just and reasonable. The decision stated that this requirement would spread El Paso reservation charges over as many ratepayers as possible to minimize the impact on any particular utilitys customers. The decision also addressed current capacity issues. It ordered the utilities to retain their current capacity levels on any interstate pipeline and to sell any excess capacity to a third party under short term capacity release arrangements. To the extent the utilities comply with the decision, they will be able to fully recover their costs associated with existing capacity contracts. In Phase II of this proceeding, the CPUC is addressing other issues that relate to these proposed rules, including (1) cost allocation of the El Paso capacity among the Utilitys customers, (2) short term capacity releases, and (3) details about the guaranteed rate recovery of the utilities costs for subscription to interstate pipeline capacity. Phase II hearings are scheduled for the end of April 2003. Since the July CPUC decision, the Utility has signed contracts for capacity on El Paso totaling approximately $50.8 million beginning November 2002 through December 2007, assuming no contracts set to expire before the end of 2007 are extended. The Utility has filed with the CPUC to recover both prepayments made to El Paso and ongoing capacity costs on the El Paso and the Transwestern Pipeline Company (Transwestern) pipelines. Under a previous CPUC decision, the Utility could not recover any costs paid to Transwestern for gas pipeline capacity through 1997. The Gas Accord (see "Gas Accord II" above) provided for partial recovery of Transwestern costs during the period 1998 through 2002. However, because of the El Paso decision, the Utility may be authorized to recover its future gas pipeline capacity purchases, which could result in additional revenues to recover costs of approximately $82 million over the remaining contract period that ends in March 2007. On December 19, 2002, the CPUC issued a resolution that would delay the Utilitys recovery of some of these costs. The resolution grants the Utilitys request to recover in rates El Paso capacity costs and prepayments made to El Paso, subject to reallocation between customers in Phase II of the proceeding. However, the resolution also ordered the Utility to continue to treat Transwestern capacity 126 costs as it had prior to the July 2002 CPUC decision. Recovery of Transwestern costs not currently authorized is being addressed in Phase II of the proceeding. The Utility does not expect the outcome of this matter to have a material adverse impact on its financial position or results of operations. Rate Reduction Bonds Californias electric industry restructuring law (AB 1890) required that retail electric rates for residential and small commercial customers be reduced by 10 percent and frozen at that level until the earlier of March 31, 2002, or when the Utility fully recovered certain costs associated with the transition to a deregulated energy market. To pay for the 10 percent rate reduction, the legislation authorized the issuance of rate reduction bonds to be repaid by residential and small commercial customers through the collection of a separate non bypassable charge called the Fixed Transition Amount (FTA). The Utility sold its rights to collect FTA charges to its subsidiary PG&E Funding LLC for $2.9 billion in cash. To fund the purchase, PG&E Funding LLC issued $2.9 billion of rate reduction bonds (see discussion of "Rate Reduction Bonds" in Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The bonds allow for the rate reduction by lowering the carrying cost on a portion of the Utilitys transition costs and by spreading recovery of that reduction over the life of the bonds. Because of the 10 percent rate reduction, the amount of revenue the Utility had available in its frozen rates to recover its transition costs was reduced. Before the first quarter of 2002, to the extent that transition costs were not recovered because of the 10 percent rate reduction, the Utility deferred these transition costs through the rate reduction bond regulatory asset (RRBRA). The RRBRA will be recovered through future FTA charges. In the first quarter of 2002, the Utility stopped deferring transition costs into the RRBRA and began amortizing the balance of the RRBRA concurrent with the amortization of the rate reduction bonds debt. The Utility recorded amortization expense of $290 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2002. The Utility recorded deferred transition costs of $458 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2001. The balance of the RRBRA was $1,346 million at December 31, 2002, and $1,636 million at December 31, 2001. The proceeds of the rate reduction bonds included amounts sufficient to pay income taxes that would be levied on future FTA revenues. The Utility benefited from the receipt of this cash up front as it reduced the overall level of financing the Utility was required to maintain. Before the first quarter of 2002, the financing cost benefit was credited to ratepayers through a reduction in the amount of transition costs that were deferred into the RRBRA. When the Utility stopped deferring transition costs into the RRBRA, the Utility began crediting this benefit to a regulatory balancing account. The balance credited to residential and small commercial customers through this account was $102 million at December 31, 2002 and $17 million at December 31, 2001. Annual Earnings Assessment Proceeding for Energy Efficiency Program Activities The Utility administers general and low income energy efficiency programs, and has been authorized to earn incentives based on a portion of the net present value of the savings achieved by the programs, incentives based on accomplishing certain tasks, and incentives based on expenditures. Each year the Utility files an earnings claim in the Annual Earnings Assessment Proceeding (AEAP), a forum for stakeholders to comment on, and for the CPUC to verify, the Utilitys claim. On March 21, 2002, the CPUC eliminated the opportunity for shareholder incentives in connection with the California utilities 2002 energy efficiency programs. This decision does not preclude the opportunity to recover shareholder incentives in connection with previous years energy efficiency programs. In May 2002, 2001, and 2000, the Utility filed its annual applications claiming incentives of approximately $106 million. The CPUC has delayed action on these proceedings and the Utility has not included any earnings associated with incentives in the Utilitys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 127 On March 13, 2002, an administrative law judge for the CPUC requested comments on whether incentives adopted for pre 1998 energy efficiency programs should be reduced or eliminated for claims in future years. Out of the total $106 million in shareholder incentives claimed by the Utility for its 2002, 2001, and 2000 AEAP filings, $74 million is related to pre 1998 energy efficiency programs. The CPUC has not yet ruled on the comments. The Utility cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, or whether the outcome will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Baseline Allowance Increase In April 2002, the CPUC required the Utility to increase baseline allowances for certain residential customers by May 1, 2002. An increase to a customers baseline allotment increases the amount of their monthly usage that is covered under the lowest possible rate and is exempt from surcharges. The CPUC deferred consideration of corresponding rate changes until a later phase of the proceeding and ordered the utilities to track the under collections associated with their respective baseline quantity changes in an interest bearing balancing account. The Utility estimates the annual revenue shortfall to be approximately $101 million for electric and $11 million for gas. The Utility is charging the electric related shortfall against earnings because it cannot predict the outcome of the second phase of the proceeding, nor can it conclude that recovery of the electric related balancing account is probable. The total electric revenue shortfall for the period May through December 2002 was $69.8 million. Issues that may be resolved during the second phase of the proceeding in early 2003 include items that could involve additional revenues at risk such as demographic revisions to baseline allowances, special allowances, and changes to baseline territories or seasons. The Utility estimated additional annual revenue shortfalls from this second phase, if adopted, of $79.6 million for electric service and $11 million for gas service, plus $11.6 million in administration costs spread out over three to five years. Included in this amount is an estimated $18 million annual shortfall resulting from a settlement allowing common area electric accounts to switch from residential to commercial rates. The settlement, approved by the CPUC on January 16, 2003, is designed to allow common area accounts to avoid disproportionately high rate increases caused by the five tiered residential electric surcharges adopted in June 2001. The new five tiered residential rate structure resulting from the $0.03 per kWh average surcharge assesses surcharges for usage above 130 percent of a customers baseline allowance. Because most of the usage of large common area accounts falls within the highest rate tiers, these accounts pay disproportionately high bills as a result of this rate design. By contrast, the Utilitys surcharges for commercial customers do not vary based on usage levels. As with the baseline quantity changes from the first phase, the CPUC deferred common area cost allocation and rate design issues to the second phase. The Utility cannot predict what the outcome of the second phase of the proceeding will be, nor can it conclude that recovery of the electric baseline related balancing account is probable. Any electric revenue shortfalls will continue to be charged to earnings and will reduce revenue available to recover previously written off under collected purchased power costs and transition costs. Nuclear Decommissioning Cost Triennial Proceeding Application In March 2002, the Utility filed an application to increase the Utilitys nuclear decommissioning revenue requirements for the years 2003 through 2005. The Utility seeks to recover $24 million in revenue requirements relating to the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and $17.5 million in revenue requirements relating to the Humboldt Bay Power Plant Decommissioning Trusts. The Utility also anticipates recovering $7.3 million in CPUC jurisdictional revenue requirements for Humboldt Bay Unit 3 SAFSTOR (a mode of decommissioning) operating and maintenance costs, and escalation associated with that amount in 2004 and 2005. The Utility proposes continuing to collect the revenue requirement through a charge in electric rates, and to record the revenue requirement and the associated revenues in a balancing account. Until post rate freeze ratemaking is implemented, the increase in revenue requirements would reduce the amount of revenues available to offset electric generation costs. 128 The ORA filed testimony with the CPUC that included lower estimates on contingencies, escalation rates and the cost of disposal of low level radioactive wastes, and a higher estimate for returns on investments in the Decommissioning Trusts. If ORAs estimates were adopted, the Utility would not need to make any new contributions to the Decommissioning Trusts for the years 2003 through 2005, since the current amounts in the Decommissioning Trusts would be adequate to pay for expected decommissioning activities. The CPUC held hearings in September 2002 and is expected to reach a final decision during April 2003. ADDITIONAL SECURITY MEASURES Since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, PG&E Corporation and the Utility have been working to assess the need for physical security upgrades at critical facilities. Various federal regulatory agencies have issued orders requiring additional safeguards, including a May 2002 Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, order. The NRC order required decommissioned nuclear facilities, such as the Utilitys Humboldt Bay Power Plant, to implement interim security compensatory measures. Facilities affected by PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys assessments include generation facilities, transmission substations, and gas transmission facilities. The security upgrades will require additional capital investment and an increased level of operating costs. However, neither PG&E Corporation nor the Utility believes these costs will have a material impact on their consolidated financial position or results of operations. RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES PG&E Corporation and the Utility are exposed to various risks associated with their operations, the marketplace, contractual obligations, financing arrangements and other aspects of their business. PG&E Corporation and the Utility actively manage these risks through risk management programs. These programs are designed to support business objectives, minimize costs, discourage unauthorized risk, and reduce the volatility of earnings and manage cash flows. At PG&E Corporation and the Utility, risk management activities often include the use of energy and financial derivative instruments and other instruments and agreements. These derivatives include forward contracts, futures, swaps, options, and other contracts. A forward contract is a commitment to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a commodity at a specified future date at a specified price; A futures contract is a standardized commitment, traded on an organized exchange, to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a commodity at a specified future date at a specified price; A swap contract is an agreement between two counterparties to exchange cash flows in the future based on changes in the underlying commodity or index; and An option contract provides the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying asset at a predetermined price in the future. PG&E Corporation uses derivatives for both non trading and trading (i.e., speculative) purposes. The Utility uses derivatives for non trading purposes only. PG&E Corporation and the Utility may use energy and financial derivatives and other instruments and agreements to mitigate the risks associated with an asset (e.g., the natural position embedded in asset ownership and regulatory arrangements), liability, committed transaction, or probable forecasted transaction. Additionally, PG&E Corporation may engage in trading activities for purposes of generating profit, gathering market intelligence, creating liquidity, and maintaining a market presence. These instruments are used in accordance with approved risk management policies adopted by a senior officer level risk oversight committee. Derivative activity is permitted only after the risk oversight committee approves appropriate risk limits for such activity. The organizational unit proposing the activity must successfully demonstrate that there is a business need for such activity and that the market risks will be adequately measured, monitored, and controlled. 129  The activities affecting the estimated fair value of trading activities and the non trading activities balance, included in net price risk management assets and liabilities, are presented below. (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 Fair values of trading contracts at beginning of period $ 58 $ 199 Net (gain) loss on contracts settled during the period (121) (296 ) Fair value of new contracts when entered into 2 Changes in fair values attributable to changes in valuation techniques and assumptions (12) Other changes in fair values 51 155 Fair values of trading contracts outstanding at end of period (22) 58 Fair value of non trading contracts at the end of the period (270) 63 Net Price Risk Management Assets (Liabilities) at end of period (292) 121 Amounts reclassified as net price risk management assets (liabilities) held for sale (377) 55 Net price risk management assets (liabilities) reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets $ 85 $ 66 The changes in fair values attributable to changes in valuation and assumptions, as reported in the table above, are composed of a $14 million loss related to PG&E NEGs implementation of a new methodology for estimating forward prices in illiquid periods, for which price information is not readily available, and a $2 million gain related to changes in assumptions used to value transportation contracts. This change in forward prices is described more fully in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. PG&E Corporation estimates the gross mark to market value of its non trading and trading contracts at December 31, 2002, using the midpoint of quoted bid and ask prices, where available. When market data is not available, PG&E Corporation uses its forward price curve methodology described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The gross mark to market valuation is then adjusted for the time value of money, creditworthiness of contractual counterparties, market liquidity in future periods, and other adjustments necessary to determine fair value. Most of PG&E Corporations risk management models are reviewed by or purchased from third party experts in specific derivative applications. The following table shows the fair value of PG&E Corporations trading contracts grouped by maturity at December 31, 2002. (in millions) Fair Value of Trading Contracts (1) Maturity Less than One Year Maturity One Three Years Maturity Four Five Years Maturity in Excess of Five Years Total Fair Value Source of Prices Used in Estimating Fair Value Actively quoted markets (2) $ 6 $ 10 $ $ $ 16 Provided by other external sources (26 ) 7 (13 ) (3 ) (35 ) Based on models and other valuation methods (3) (23 ) (30 ) (15 ) 65 (3 ) Total Mark to Market $ (43 ) $ (13 ) $ (28 ) $ 62 $ (22 ) (1)Excludes all non trading contracts, including non trading contracts that receive mark to market accounting treatment. (2)Actively quoted markets are exchanged traded quotes. (3)In many cases, these prices are an input into option models that calculate a gross mark to market value from which fair value is derived. 130 The amounts disclosed above are not indicative of likely future cash flows. The future value of trading contracts may be impacted by changes in underlying valuations, new transactions, market liquidity, and PG&E Corporations risk management portfolio needs and strategies. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions will adversely affect earnings or cash flow. PG&E Corporation categorizes market risks as price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and credit risk. These market risks may impact PG&E Corporations and its subsidiaries assets and trading portfolios. Immediately below is an overview of PG&E Corporations market risks, followed by detailed descriptions of the market risks and explanations as to how each of these risks are managed. Price risk results from the Utilitys or PG&E NEGs exposure to the impacts of market fluctuations in price and transportation costs of commodities such as electricity, natural gas, other fuels, and other energy related products; Interest rate risk primarily results from exposure to the volatility of interest rates as a result of financing or refinancing through the issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt; Foreign currency risk results from exposure to volatilities in currency rates; and Credit risk results from exposure to counterparties who may fail to perform under their contractual obligations. Price Risk Price risk is the risk that changes in primarily commodity market prices will adversely affect earnings and cash flows. Below are descriptions of the Utilitys and PG&E NEGs specific price risks. Also described below is the value at risk methodology, which is PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys method for assessing the prospective risk that exists within a portfolio for price risk. Utility Electric Commodity Price Risk Purchased Power In compliance with regulatory requirements, the Utility manages commodity price risk independently from the activities in PG&E Corporations unregulated businesses. The Utility also reports its commodity price risk separately for its electric and natural gas businesses. Since January 2001, the DWR has been responsible for procuring electricity required to cover the Utilitys net open position. The Utility bills its customers for these DWR electricity purchases and remits amounts collected to the DWR based on their CPUC approved revenue requirement. To the extent that the Utilitys electricity rates remain frozen, and the CPUC increases the portion of the DWRs revenue requirement allocated to the Utilitys customers to cover adverse market price changes or other factors, the Utility has commodity price risk. The Utility is exposed to price risk to the extent that the cost of new electricity purchases increases, or the revenue from new wholesale sales decreases. The DWRs authority to enter into new electricity purchase contracts expired January 1, 2003. SB 1976 and CPUC orders required the California IOUs, including the Utility, to resume responsibility for procuring the electricity to meet the residual net open position by January 1, 2003. On December 19, 2002, the CPUC issued an interim opinion granting the Utility authority to enter into contracts designed to hedge the residual net open position through the first quarter of 2004. The CPUCs interim opinion also established a maximum annual procurement disallowance equal to twice the Utilitys annual administrative costs of managing procurement activities, including the administration and dispatch of electricity associated with DWR allocated contracts. However, the Utility can provide no assurance that the CPUC will not increase or eliminate this maximum annual 131 procurement disallowance in the future. Such a change would increase the Utilitys exposure to electric commodity price risk. The residual net open position is expected to increase over time due to periodic expirations of existing and DWR allocated procurement contracts. The Utility can provide no assurance that electricity will continue to be available for purchase in quantities sufficient to satisfy the residual net open position as these or other events occur. Even if the Utility were able to purchase electricity in quantities sufficient to satisfy the residual net open position, it would be exposed to wholesale electricity commodity price fluctuations and uncertain commercial terms. Conversely, the amount of energy provided by the DWR contracts will likely result in significant excess electricity during various periods, which the Utility will be required to attempt to sell on the open market. Nuclear Fuel The Utility has purchase agreements for nuclear fuel components and services for use in operating the Diablo Canyon generating facility. The Utility relies on large, well established international producers for its long term agreements in order to diversify its commitments and ensure security of supply. Pricing terms are also diversified, ranging from fixed prices to base prices that are adjusted using published information. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission imposed tariffs of up to 50 percent on imports from certain countries providing nuclear fuel. If these tariffs remain in place, the Utilitys nuclear fuel costs may rise because there are a limited number of suppliers in the world for such fuel. The Utilitys ratemaking for retained generation is cost of service based; however, to the extent that the Utilitys electricity rates remain frozen, changes in the cost of nuclear fuel would impact the amount of revenues the Utility has available to recover its previously written off under collected purchased electric generation costs. For this reason, the Utility is exposed to price risk to the extent that the cost of nuclear fuel increases. Utility Natural Gas Commodity Price Risk Through 2003, the Core Procurement Incentive Mechanism (CPIM) determines how much of the cost of procuring natural gas for its customers may be included in the Utilitys natural gas procurement rates. Under the CPIM, the Utilitys procurement costs are compared to an aggregate market based benchmark based on a weighted average of published monthly and daily natural gas prices at the points where the Utility typically purchases natural gas. If costs fall within a range, or tolerance band currently 99 percent to 102 percent, around the benchmark, they are considered reasonable and may be fully recovered in customer rates. Ratepayers and shareholders share equally the costs and savings outside the tolerance band. In addition, the Utility has contracts for transportation capacity on various natural gas pipelines. A recent CPUC decision found that the Utilitys acquisition of additional interstate transportation capacity was reasonable and that all interstate transportation capacity already held by the Utility was also reasonable. A future decision will allocate the cost of the transportation capacity between customer groups and will also determine the date on which all transportation capacity costs held by the Utility prior to July 2002 will be recoverable. Under the Gas Accord, shareholders are at risk for any revenues from the sale of capacity on the Utilitys gas transmissions and storage facilities. Under the Gas Accord, the Utility sells a portion of the pipeline and storage capacity at competitive market based rates. Revenues are generally lower when throughput volumes are lower than expected and when the price spreads between two delivery points narrow. In August 2002, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement between the Utility and other parties that provided for a one year extension of the Utilitys existing gas transmission and storage rates and terms and conditions of service through the end of 2003. (The Gas Accord was originally scheduled to expire on December 31, 2002.) For further discussion, see "Gas Accord II" in the "Regulatory Matters" section of the MD&A. 132 PG&E NEG Price Risk PG&E NEG is exposed to price risk from its portfolio of proprietary trading contracts and its portfolio of electric generation assets and supply contracts that serve wholesale and industrial customers, and various merchant plants currently in development and construction. As described above, PG&E NEG is in the process of reducing and unwinding its trading positions. Additionally, asset hedge positions associated with the merchant plants will either remain with the assets or be terminated. PG&E NEG has significantly reduced their energy trading operations in an ongoing effort to raise cash and reduce debt. PG&E NEGs objective is to limit its asset trading and risk management activities to only what is necessary for energy management services to facilitate the transition of PG&E NEGs merchant generation facilities through their sale, transfer, or abandonment process. PG&E NEG will then further reduce and transition to only retain limited capabilities to ensure fuel procurement and power logistics for PG&E NEGs retained independent power plant operations. Value at Risk PG&E Corporation and the Utility measure price risk exposure using value at risk and other methodologies that simulate future price movements in the energy markets to estimate the probability of future potential losses. Price risk is quantified using what is referred to as the variance covariance technique of measuring value at risk, which provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products. This methodology requires the selection of a number of important assumptions including a confidence level for losses, price volatility, market liquidity, and a specified holding period. This technique uses historical price movements data and specific, defined mathematical parameters to estimate the characteristics of and the relationships between components of assets and liabilities held for price risk management activities. PG&E Corporation therefore uses the historical data for calculating the expected price volatility of its portfolios contractual positions to project the likelihood that the prices of those positions will move together. The value at risk model includes all of PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys commodity derivatives and other financial instruments over the entire length of the terms of the transactions in the trading and non trading portfolios. PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys value at risk calculation is a dollar amount reflecting the maximum potential one day loss in the fair value of their portfolios due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon within a specified confidence level. This calculation is based on a 95 percent confidence level, which means that there is a 5 percent probability that PG&E Corporations portfolios will incur a loss in value in one day at least as large as the reported value at risk. For example, if the value at risk is calculated at $5 million, there is a 95 percent probability that if prices moved against current positions, the reduction in the value of the portfolio resulting from such one day price movements would not exceed $5 million. There would also be a 5 percent probability that a one day price movement would be greater than $5 million. The following table illustrates the potential one day unfavorable impact for price risk as measured by the value at risk model, based on a one day holding period. A two year comparison of daily value at risk is included in order to provide context around the one day amounts. The high and low 133 valuations represent the highest and lowest of the values during 2002. The average valuation represents the average of the values during 2002. (in millions) December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2002 2002 2001 Average High Low Utility Non trading activities (1) $ 4.0 $ 3.6 $ 2.1 $ 5.8 $ 0.3 PG&E NEG Trading activities 8.2 5.8 5.2 9.7 2.1 Non trading activities: Non trading contracts that receive mark to market accounting treatment (2) 2.7 2.9 3.9 2.1 Non trading contracts accounted for as hedges (3) 9.4 10.3 12.5 18.6 9.4 (1)Includes the Utilitys gas portfolio only, as this represents the Utilitys only commodity price risk through year end 2002. (2)Includes derivative power and fuels contracts that do not qualify under the SFAS No. 133 normal purchases and normal sales exception and do not qualify to be accounted for as cash flow hedges. (3)Includes only the risk related to the derivative instruments that serve as hedges and does not include the related underlying hedged item. Any gain or loss on these derivative commodity instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding gain or loss on the hedged commodity positions, which are not included. Value at risk has several limitations as a measure of portfolio risk, including, but not limited to, underestimation of the risk of a portfolio with significant options exposure, inadequate indication of the exposure of a portfolio to extreme price movements, and the inability to address the risk resulting from intra day trading activities. Value at risk also does not reflect the significant regulatory and legislative risks currently facing the Utility or the risks relating to the Utilitys bankruptcy proceedings. PG&E NEGs value at risk levels have increased at December 31, 2002, as compared to levels at December 31, 2001, due to strong prices and increased market volatility across all commodities in 2002. It is expected that PG&E NEGs value at risk levels will eventually peak and start to decrease because, as previously discussed, PG&E NEG is in the process of reducing and unwinding its trading positions. Additionally, asset hedge positions associated with the merchant plants will either remain with the assets or be terminated. See the discussion above in the MD&As "Liquidity and Financial Resources PG&E NEG" section for further information regarding PG&E NEGs current financial situation. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings or cash flows. Specific interest rate risks for PG&E Corporation and the Utility include the risk of increasing interest rates on working capital facilities, variable rate tax exempt pollution control bonds, and other variable rate debt. PG&E Corporation may use the following interest rate instruments to manage its interest rate exposure: interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, floors, or collars, swaptions, or interest rate forward and futures contracts. Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. At December 31, 2002, if interest rates changed by 1 percent for all variable rate debt at PG&E Corporation and the Utility, the change would affect net income by approximately $35 million for PG&E Corporation and $33 million for the Utility, based on variable rate debt and hedging derivatives and other interest rate sensitive instruments outstanding. The table included above in this MD&As Commitments and Capital Expenditures section provides the maturity of the carrying amounts and the related weighted average interest rates on PG&E Corporations interest bearing securities, by expected maturity dates. 134 Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk of changes in value of pending financial obligations in foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. PG&E Corporation and the Utility are exposed to such risk associated with foreign currency exchange variations related to Canadian denominated purchase and swap agreements. PG&E Corporation is also exposed to foreign currency risk resulting from the need to translate Canadian denominated financial statements of an affiliate into U.S. dollars in the PG&E Corporation Consolidated Financial Statements. PG&E Corporation and the Utility use forwards, swaps, and options to hedge foreign currency exposure. For the Utility, changes in gas purchase costs due to fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar would be passed through to customers in rates, as long as the overall costs of purchasing gas are within a 99 percent to 102 percent tolerance band of the benchmark price under the CPIM mechanism, as discussed above. The Utilitys customers and shareholders would share in the costs or savings outside of the tolerance band equally. PG&E Corporation and the Utility use sensitivity analysis to measure their exchange rate exposure to the Canadian dollar. Based on a sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2002, a 10 percent devaluation of the Canadian dollar would be immaterial to PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of loss that PG&E Corporation and the Utility would incur if counterparties failed to perform their contractual obligations (these obligations are reflected as Accounts Receivable Customers, net; notes receivable included in Other Noncurrent Assets Other; Price Risk Management (PRM) assets; and Assets held for sale on the balance sheet). PG&E Corporation and the Utility conduct business primarily with customers or vendors, referred to as counterparties, in the energy industry. These counterparties include other investor owned utilities, municipal utilities, energy trading companies, financial institutions, and oil and gas production companies located in the United States and Canada. This concentration of counterparties may impact PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys overall exposure to credit risk because their counterparties may be similarly affected by economic or regulatory changes or other changes in conditions. PG&E Corporation and the Utility manage their credit risk in accordance with their respective Risk Management Policies. The policies establish processes for assigning credit limits to counterparties before entering into agreements with significant exposure to PG&E Corporation and the Utility. These processes include an evaluation of a potential counterpartys financial condition, net worth, credit rating, and other credit criteria as deemed appropriate, and are performed at least annually. Credit exposure is calculated daily, and in the event that exposure exceeds the established limits, PG&E Corporation and the Utility take immediate action to reduce the exposure, or obtain additional collateral, or both. Further, PG&E Corporation and the Utility rely heavily on master agreements that require the counterparty to post security, referred to as credit collateral, in the form of cash, letters of credit, corporate guarantees of acceptable credit quality, or eligible securities if current net receivables and replacement cost exposure exceed contractually specified limits. PG&E Corporation and the Utility calculate gross credit exposure for each counterparty as the current mark to market value of the contract (that is, the amount that would be lost if the counterparty defaulted today) plus or minus any outstanding net receivables or payables, prior to the application of the counterpartys credit collateral. In 2002, PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys credit risk increased due in part to downgrades of some counterparties credit ratings to levels below investment grade. The downgrades increase PG&E Corporations or the Utilitys credit risk because any collateral provided by these counterparties in the form of corporate guarantees or eligible securities may be of lesser or no value. Therefore, in the event 135 these counterparties failed to perform under their contracts, PG&E Corporation and the Utility may face a greater potential maximum loss. In contrast, PG&E Corporation and the Utility do not face any additional risk if counterparties credit collateral is in the form of cash or letters of credit, as this collateral is not affected by a credit rating downgrade. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PG&E Corporation and the Utility have recognized no losses due to the contract defaults or bankruptcies of counterparties. However, in 2001, PG&E Corporation terminated its contracts with a bankrupt company, which resulted in a pre tax charge to earnings of $60 million related to trading and non trading activities, after application of collateral held and accounts payable. At December 31, 2002, and at December 31, 2001, PG&E Corporation had no single counterparty that represented greater than 10 percent of PG&E Corporations net credit exposure. At December 31, 2002, the Utility had one investment grade counterparty that represented 21 percent of the Utilitys net credit exposure, and one below investment grade counterparty that represented 11 percent of the Utilitys net credit exposure. At December 31, 2001, the Utility had no single counterparty that represented greater than 10 percent of the Utilitys net credit exposure. The schedule below summarizes PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys credit risk exposure to counterparties that are in a net asset position, with the exception of exchange traded futures (the exchange provides for contract settlement on a daily basis), as well as PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys credit risk exposure to counterparties with a greater than 10 percent net credit exposure, at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001: (in millions) Gross Credit Exposure Before Credit Collateral(1) Credit Collateral(2) Net Credit Exposure(2) Number of Counterparties &gt;10% Net Exposure of Counterparties &gt;10% At December 31, 2002 PG&E Corporation $ 1,165 $ 195 $ 970 $ Utility (3) 288 113 175 2 55 At December 31, 2001 PG&E Corporation $ 1,203 $ 207 $ 996 $ Utility (3) 271 127 144 (1)Gross credit exposure equals mark to market value (adjusted for applicable credit valuation adjustments), notes receivable, and net (payables) receivables where netting is allowed. Gross and net credit exposure amounts reported above do not include adjustments for time value, liquidity, or model. (2)Net credit exposure is the gross credit exposure minus credit collateral (cash deposits and letters of credit). (3)The Utilitys gross credit exposure includes wholesale activity only. Retail activity and payables incurred prior to the Utilitys bankruptcy filing are not included. Retail activity at the Utility consists of the accounts receivable from the sale of gas and electricity to millions of residential and small commercial customers. At December 31, 2002, approximately $205 million, or 21 percent of PG&E Corporations net credit exposure was to entities that had credit ratings below investment grade. At December 31, 2002, approximately $64 million, or 37 percent of the Utilitys net credit exposure was to entities that had credit ratings below investment grade. At December 31, 2001, approximately $244 million, or 25 percent of PG&E Corporations net credit exposure was to entities that had credit ratings below investment grade. At December 31, 2001, approximately $32 million, or 22 percent of the Utilitys net credit exposure was to entities that had credit ratings below investment grade. Investment grade is determined using publicly available information, i.e., rated at least Baa3 by Moodys and BBB by S&P. If the counterparty provides a guarantee by a higher rated entity (e.g., its parent), the credit rating determination is based on the rating of its guarantor. 136 At December 31, 2002, approximately $65 million, or 7 percent of PG&E Corporations net credit exposure was with counterparties at PG&E NEG that are not rated. At December 31, 2001, none of PG&E Corporations net credit exposure was with counterparties at PG&E NEG that were not rated. Most counterparties with no credit rating are governmental authorities which are not rated, but which PG&E Corporation has assessed as equivalent to investment grade. Other counterparties with no credit rating are subject to an internal assessment of their credit quality and a credit rating designation. PG&E Corporation has regional concentrations of credit exposure to counterparties that conduct business primarily in the western United States and also to counterparties that conduct business primarily throughout North America. The Utility has a regional concentration of credit risk associated with its receivables from residential and small commercial customers in northern California. However, the risk of material loss due to nonperformance from these customers is not considered likely. Reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable are provided for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers based on historical experience. The Utility has a net regional concentration of credit exposure totaling $175 million to counterparties that conduct business primarily throughout North America. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Certain of these estimates and assumptions are considered to be Critical Accounting Policies, due to their complexity, subjectivity, and uncertainty, along with their relevance to the financial performance of PG&E Corporation. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. These policies and their key characteristics are outlined below. In 2001, PG&E Corporation and the Utility adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (collectively, SFAS No. 133), which required all derivative instruments to be recognized in the financial statements at their fair value. Prior to its rescission, PG&E Corporation accounted for its energy trading activities in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 98 10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities", and SFAS No. 133, which require certain energy trading contracts to be accounted for at fair values using mark to market accounting. See discussion of Rescission of EITF 98 10 below. Effective for the third quarter ended September 30, 2002, PG&E Corporation adopted the net method of recognizing realized gains and losses on energy trading contracts. Under the net method, revenues and expenses are netted and trading gains (or losses) are reflected in revenues on the income statement, as opposed to reporting revenues and expenses under the previously used gross method. PG&E Corporation and the Utility have derivative commodity contracts for the physical delivery of purchase and sale quantities such as natural gas and power transacted in the normal course of business. These derivatives are exempt from the requirements of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchases and sales exception, and are not reflected on the balance sheet at fair value. See further discussion in Notes 1 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. PG&E Corporation and the Utility apply SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," to their regulated operations. Under SFAS No. 71, regulatory assets represent capitalized costs that would otherwise be charged to expense. These costs are later recovered through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities are rate actions of a regulator that will later be credited to customers through the rate making process. Regulatory assets and liabilities are recorded when it is probable that these items will be recovered or reflected in future rates. If it is determined that these items are no longer probable of recovery under SFAS No. 71, then they will be written off at that time. At December 31, 2002, PG&E Corporation reported regulatory assets of $2.2 billion, including current 137 regulatory balancing accounts receivable and regulatory liabilities of $1.8 billion, including current regulatory balancing accounts payable. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Utility records revenues as electricity and natural gas are delivered. A portion of the revenue recognized has not yet been billed. Unbilled revenues are determined by factoring the actual load (energy) delivered with recent historical usage and rate patterns. Due to the Utilitys filing for bankruptcy in 2001, the financial statements for both PG&E Corporation and the Utility are prepared in accordance with SOP 90 7, which is used by reorganizing entities operating under the Bankruptcy Code. Under SOP 90 7, certain claims against the Utility prior to its bankruptcy filing are recorded as Liabilities Subject to Compromise. The Utility reported a total of $9.4 billion of Liabilities Subject to Compromise at December 31, 2002. While the Utility operates under the protection of the Bankruptcy Court, the realization of assets and the liquidation of liabilities is subject to uncertainty, as additional claims to Liabilities Subject to Compromise can change due to such actions as the resolution of disputed claims or certain Bankruptcy Court actions. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Utility records an environmental remediation liability when site assessments indicate that remediation is probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. This liability is based on site investigations, remediation, operations, maintenance, monitoring, and closure. This liability is reviewed on a quarterly basis, and is recorded at the lower range of estimated costs, unless there is a better estimate available. At December 31, 2002, the Utilitys undiscounted environmental remediation liability was $331 million. The Utilitys future cost could increase to as much as $444 million if (1) the other potentially responsible parties are not financially able to contribute to these costs, (2) the extent of contamination or necessary remediation is greater than anticipated, or (3) the Utility is found to be responsible for clean up costs at additional sites. The process of estimating remediation liabilities is difficult and changes in the estimate could occur given the uncertainty concerning the Utilitys ultimate liability, the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the selection of compliance alternatives, and the financial ability of other responsible parties. PG&E NEG estimates that it may be required to spend up to approximately $608 million before insurance proceeds for environmental compliance at certain of its operating facilities. To date, PG&E NEG has spent approximately $13 million on environmental compliance. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Since the CPUC authorized the collection of incremental surcharge revenues in January and March 2001, the Utility has used generation related revenues in excess of generation related costs to recover approximately $1.9 billion (after tax) in previously written off under collected purchased power and generation related charges. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2002, total surcharge revenues recognized were $1.8 billion (after tax). For the 12 months ended December 31, 2001, total surcharge revenues recognized were $1.3 billion (after tax). The Utility has not provided reserves for potential refunds of these surcharges as it believes that recent regulatory orders and actions provide evidence that it is not probable that a refund will be ordered. However, it is possible that subsequent decisions by the CPUC may affect the amount and timing of these surcharge revenues recovered by the Utility and that subsequent CPUC decisions may order the Utility to refund all or a portion of the surcharge revenues collected. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and risk factors discussed in the Overview section of this MD&A for further discussion. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of accounting policies and new accounting developments. ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities In January 2003 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN 46), which expands upon existing accounting guidance addressing when a company should include in its 138 financial statements the assets, liabilities, and activities of another entity. FIN 46 notes that many of what are now referred to as "variable interest entities" have commonly been referred to as special purpose entities or off balance sheet structures. However, the Interpretations guidance is to be applied to not only these entities but to all entities found within a company. FIN 46 provides some general guidance as to the definition of a variable interest entity. PG&E Corporation is currently evaluating all entities to determine if they meet the FIN 46 criteria as variable interest entities. Until the issuance of FIN 46, one company generally included another entity in its Consolidated Financial Statements only if it controlled the entity through voting interests. FIN 46 changes that by requiring a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entitys activities or entitled to receive a majority of the entitys residual returns, or both. A company that consolidates a variable interest entity is now referred to as the "primary beneficiary" of that entity. FIN 46 requires disclosure of variable interest entities that the company is not required to consolidate but in which it has a significant variable interest. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements apply to variable interest entities created before January 31, 2003, in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, so these requirements would be applicable to PG&E Corporation in the third quarter 2003. Certain new and expanded disclosure requirements apply to all financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable interest entity was established. These disclosures are required if there is an assessment that it is reasonably possible that an enterprise will consolidate or disclose information about a variable interest entity when FIN 46 becomes effective. PG&E Corporation is currently evaluating the impacts of FIN 46s initial recognition, measurement, and disclosure provisions on its Consolidated Financial Statements. Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN 45). FIN 45 expands on the accounting guidance of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," SFAS No. 57, "Related Party Disclosures," and SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments." FIN 45 also incorporates, without change, the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 34, "Disclosures of Indirect Guarantees of the Indebtedness of Others," which it supersedes. FIN 45 elaborates on the existing disclosure requirements for most guarantees. It clarifies that a guarantors required disclosures include the nature of the guarantee, the maximum potential undiscounted payments that could be required, the current carrying amount of the liability, if any, for the guarantors obligations (including the liability recognized under SFAS No. 5), and the nature of any recourse provisions or available collateral that would enable the guarantor to recover amounts paid under the guarantee. FIN 45 also clarifies that at the time a company issues a guarantee, it must recognize an initial liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee, including its ongoing obligation to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event that specified triggering events or conditions occur. This information must also be disclosed in interim and annual financial statements. FIN 45 does not prescribe a specific account for the guarantors offsetting entry when it recognizes the liability at the inception of the guarantee, noting that the offsetting entry would depend on the circumstances in which the guarantee was issued. There also is no prescribed approach included for subsequently measuring the guarantors recognized liability over the term of the related guarantee. It is noted that the liability would typically be reduced by a credit to earnings as the guarantor is released from risk under the guarantee. 139 The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions apply on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. PG&E Corporation is currently evaluating the impact of FIN 45s initial recognition and measurement provisions on its Consolidated Financial Statements. The disclosure requirements for FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002, and have been incorporated into PG&E Corporations December 31, 2002, disclosures of guarantees. Rescission of EITF 98 10 In October 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force rescinded EITF 98 10. Energy trading contracts that are derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133 will continue to be accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 133. Contracts that were previously marked to market as trading activities under EITF 98 10 that do not meet the definition of a derivative will be recorded at cost, with a one time adjustment to be recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as of January 1, 2003. For PG&E Corporation, the majority of trading contracts are derivative instruments as defined in SFAS No. 133. The rescission of EITF 98 10 has no effect on the accounting for derivative instruments used for non trading purposes, which continue to be accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The reporting requirements associated with the rescission of EITF 98 10 are to be applied prospectively for all EITF 98 10 energy trading contracts entered into after October 25, 2002. For all EITF 98 10 energy trading contracts in existence at or prior to October 25, 2002, the estimated impact of the first quarter 2003 cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is a loss of $5 million, net of taxes at December 31, 2002. Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," which addresses accounting for restructuring and similar costs. SFAS No. 146 supersedes previous accounting guidance, principally EITF Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity" (EITF 94 3). PG&E Corporation will adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 146 for restructuring activities initiated after December 31, 2002. SFAS No. 146 requires that the liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Under EITF 94 3, a liability for an exit cost was recognized at the date of the companys commitment to an exit plan if certain other criteria were met. SFAS No. 146 also establishes that the liability initially should be measured and recorded at fair value. Accordingly, the prospective implementation of SFAS No. 146 may affect the timing of recognizing future restructuring costs as well as the amounts recognized. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." PG&E Corporation and the Utility will adopt this Statement effective January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for costs associated with legal obligations to retire tangible, long lived assets. Under the Statement, the asset retirement obligation is recorded at fair value in the period in which it is incurred by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. In each subsequent period, the liability is accreted to its present value and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying this Statement will be recognized as a change in accounting principle in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, rate regulated entities may recognize regulatory assets or liabilities as a result of timing differences between the recognition of costs as recorded in accordance with this statement and costs recovered through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and liabilities may be recorded when it is probable that the asset retirement costs will be recovered through the ratemaking process. PG&E Corporation estimates the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 effective January 1, 2003 will be as follows: The Utility will adjust its nuclear decommissioning obligation to reflect the fair value of decommissioning its nuclear power facilities. The Utility will also recognize asset retirement 140 obligations associated with the decommissioning of other fossil generation assets. At December 31, 2002, the total nuclear decommissioning obligation accrued was $1.3 billion and is included in accumulated depreciation and decommissioning on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 13, "Nuclear Decommissioning"). The Utility had accrued, at December 31, 2002, $52 million to decommission certain fossil generation assets based on its estimate of the decommissioning obligation under the accounting principles in effect at that time. These decommissioning obligations are also included in accumulated depreciation and decommissioning on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Utility estimates it will recognize an adjustment to its recorded nuclear and fossil facility decommissioning obligations in the range of an increase of $222 million to a decrease of $192 million for asset retirement obligations in existence as of January 1, 2003. The estimated cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from unrecognized accretion expense and adjustments to depreciation and decommissioning expense accrued to date will range from a loss of $19 million to a gain of $17 million (pre tax). PG&E NEG estimates that it will recognize a liability in the range of $11 million to $21 million for asset retirement obligations on January 1, 2003. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from unrecognized accretion and depreciation expense is estimated to be a loss in the range of $4 million to $6 million (pre tax). PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT PLANS PG&E Corporation and its subsidiaries provide qualified and non qualified non contributory defined benefit pension plans for their employees, retirees, and non employee directors. PG&E Corporation and its subsidiaries also provide contributory defined benefit medical plans for certain retired employees and their eligible dependents, and noncontributory defined benefit life insurance plans for certain retired employees (referred to collectively as other benefits). Amounts that PG&E Corporation and the Utility recognize as obligations to provide pension benefits under SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions," and other benefits under SFAS No. 106. "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions" are based on certain actuarial assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in determining pension obligations include the discount rate, the average rate of future compensation increases, and the expected return on plan assets. Actuarial assumptions used in determining other benefit obligations include the discount rate, the average rate of future compensation increases, the expected return on plan assets, and the assumed health care cost trend rate. While PG&E Corporation and the Utility believe the assumptions used are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience, plan changes, or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the recorded pension and other benefit obligations and future plan expenses. Pension and other benefit funds are held in external trust funds. Trust assets, including accumulated earnings, must be used exclusively for pension and other benefit payments. Consistent with the trusts investment policies, assets are invested in U.S. equities, non U.S. equities, and fixed income securities. Investment securities are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. As a result of these risks, it is reasonably possible that the market values of investment securities could increase or decrease in the near term. Increases or decreases in market values could materially affect the current value of the trusts and, as a result, the future level of pension and other benefit expense. Expected rates of return on plan assets were developed by determining projected stock and bond returns and then applying these returns to the target asset allocations of the employee benefit trusts, resulting in a weighted average rate of return on plan assets. Fixed income returns were based on historic returns for the broad U.S. bond market. Equity returns were determined by applying a market risk premium of 3.5 percent to the U.S. bond market return. For the Utility Retirement Plan, the assumed return of 8.1 percent compares to a ten year actual return of 8.4 percent. 141 The rate used to discount pension and other post retirement benefit plan liabilities was based on a yield curve developed from the Moodys AA Corporate Bond Index at December 31, 2002. This yield curve has discount rates that vary based on the maturity of the obligations. The estimated future cash flows for the pension and other post retirement obligations were matched to the corresponding rates on the yield curve to derive a weighted average discount rate. The resulting rate was validated by comparison to the yield of a high quality, non callable corporate bond portfolio with cash flows corresponding to expected future benefit payments. For the Utility Retirement Plan, a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase the accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $240 million. TAXATION MATTERS The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its audit of PG&E Corporations 1997 and 1998 consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns and has assessed additional federal income taxes of $71 million (including interest). PG&E Corporation has filed protests contesting certain adjustments made by the IRS in that audit and currently is discussing these adjustments with the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS also is auditing PG&E Corporations 1999 and 2000 consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns, but has not issued its final report. However, the IRS has proposed adjustments totaling $78 million (including interest). The resolution of these matters with the IRS is not expected to have a material adverse effect on PG&E Corporations earnings. All of PG&E Corporations federal income tax returns prior to 1997 have been closed. In addition, California and certain other state tax authorities currently are auditing various state tax returns. The results of these audits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on PG&E Corporations earnings. In the third quarter of 2002, PG&E Corporation re evaluated its position with respect to the expected realization of certain synthetic fuel tax credits, and as a result, recorded additional tax benefits totaling $43 million. Deferred tax assets with respect to impairments and write offs at PG&E NEG were recorded in 2002. Due to uncertainty in realizing state tax benefits associated with these deferred tax assets, valuation allowances were established. A valuation allowance of $97 million associated with state tax benefits was recorded in continuing operations. In addition, a valuation allowance of $87 million associated with state tax benefits was recorded in discontinued operations. ENVIRONMENTAL AND LEGAL MATTERS PG&E Corporation and the Utility are subject to laws and regulations established both to maintain and to improve the quality of the environment. Where PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys properties contain hazardous substance, these laws and regulations require PG&E Corporation and the Utility to remove those substances or to remedy effects on the environment. Also, in the normal course of business, PG&E Corporation and the Utility are named as parties in a number of claims and lawsuits. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of environmental matters and significant pending legal matters. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Information responding to Item 7A appears under the heading "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Management Activities," and under Notes 1 and 11 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements". 142  
 
