Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Technology Infrastructure Technology Infrastructure (25.4%, 24.8% and 24.9% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of essential technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world, we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology infrastructure. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Aviation Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. Aviation is party to agreements that share the financial results of certain aircraft and marine engine lines. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs. Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC. Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2008, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. (5) Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft. We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long term maintenance contracts. The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards. Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other. Enterprise Solutions Enterprise Solutions delivers integrated solutions that improve customers productivity and profitability. We offer integrated solutions using sensors and non destructive testing, security and life safety technologies, power system protection and control, and plant automation and embedded computing systems. From home to industry to national security, our technology covers the full spectrum of security solutions, including card access systems, high tech video monitoring, intrusion and fire detection, real estate and property control, and explosives and narcotics detection. We design and manufacture equipment and systems that enable customers to monitor, protect, control and ensure the safety of their critical applications. These products include sensing instruments that measure temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate for demanding customer applications. Enterprise Solutions also designs, manufactures and services inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current, that monitors and tests materials without disassembling, deforming or damaging them. We deliver automation hardware, software and embedded computing systems designed to help users reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance profitability through a diverse array of capabilities and products, including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, computer numerical controls, operator interfaces, industrial computers, and lasers. We also provide protection & control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment for utility, industrial and large commercial customers. We protect and optimize assets such as generators, transmission lines and motors, to ensure secure wireless data transmission and uninterruptible power. Healthcare Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, helping them to tailor treatment for individual patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the ER, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With X ray, digital mammography, Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates industry leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the latest in cellular technologies. During 2008, we acquired Whatman plc, a global supplier of filtration products and technologies and Vital Signs, Inc., a global provider of medical products applicable to a wide range of care areas such as anesthesia, respiratory, sleep therapy and emergency medicine. Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management and customer productivity services. (6) We compete with a variety of U.S. and non U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout the world, we play a critical role in delivering new technology to improve patient outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA, as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. Transportation Transportation provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical applications such as wind turbines. Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. NBC Universal NBC Universal (9.3%, 8.9% and 10.7% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBC Universal, which is 80 percent owned by General Electric and 20 percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of leading cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our premier film company, Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world wide distribution of theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the world renowned theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. Our cable/satellite television networks include the USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, the SciFi Channel, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is one of four major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve 210 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2008, we owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. (7) NBC Universal is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Capital Finance Capital Finance (36.7%, 38.4% and 37.2% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide. Services include commercial loans, operating leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. Within our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Additionally, in 2008, we have increased our focus on core operations, ability to self fund and restructuring low return businesses. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL offers a broad range of financial services worldwide. We have particular mid market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications and healthcare industries. During 2008, we made a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which were Merrill Lynch Capital and CitiCapital. In January 2009, we acquired Interbanca S.p.A., a leading Italian corporate bank. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. GE Money GE Money, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers in over 50 countries around the world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake). During the second quarter of 2008, this planned sale was expanded to GE Money Japan, which comprises Lake and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. This sale was completed in the third quarter of 2008. (8) In June 2008, we committed to sell the GE Money businesses in Germany, Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland. In October 2008, we completed the sale of the GE Money business in Germany. In January 2009, we completed the sale of the remaining businesses, which are included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. In December 2008, we committed to sell a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. This sale is expected to be executed during the first quarter of 2009. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers captive finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or sales prices. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas liquids. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Commercial Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS is a global leader in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions for commercial aircraft. Our airport financing unit makes debt and equity investments primarily in mid sized regional airports. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and intermodal). We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. (9) Consumer & Industrial Consumer & Industrial (6.4%, 7.3% and 8.7% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Strong global competition rarely permits premium pricing, so cost control, including productivity, is key. Despite pricing pressures on many of our products, we also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable. While some Consumer & Industrial products are primarily directed to consumer applications (major appliances, for example), and some primarily to industrial applications (switchgear, for example), others are directed to both markets (lighting, for example). We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products, and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair, aftermarket parts and warranty administration. We also manufacture and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Consumer & Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. The aggregate level of economic activity in markets for such products and services generally lags overall economic slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries. In the U.S., industrial markets are undergoing significant structural changes reflecting, among other factors, increased international competition and continued commodity cost pressures. Our headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations comprised GE Money Japan; WMC; Plastics; Advanced Materials; GE Life, our U.K. based life insurance operation; the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses and the European life and health operations of GE Insurance Solutions Corporation (GE Insurance Solutions); and Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), our formerly wholly owned subsidiary that conducted most of our consumer insurance business, including life and mortgage insurance operations. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. NBC Universal NBC Universal (9.3%, 8.9% and 10.7% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBC Universal, which is 80 percent owned by General Electric and 20 percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of leading cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our premier film company, Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world wide distribution of theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the world renowned theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. Our cable/satellite television networks include the USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, the SciFi Channel, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is one of four major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve 210 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2008, we owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. (7) NBC Universal is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Capital Finance Capital Finance (36.7%, 38.4% and 37.2% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide. Services include commercial loans, operating leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. Within our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Additionally, in 2008, we have increased our focus on core operations, ability to self fund and restructuring low return businesses. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL offers a broad range of financial services worldwide. We have particular mid market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications and healthcare industries. During 2008, we made a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which were Merrill Lynch Capital and CitiCapital. In January 2009, we acquired Interbanca S.p.A., a leading Italian corporate bank. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. GE Money GE Money, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers in over 50 countries around the world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake). During the second quarter of 2008, this planned sale was expanded to GE Money Japan, which comprises Lake and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. This sale was completed in the third quarter of 2008. (8) In June 2008, we committed to sell the GE Money businesses in Germany, Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland. In October 2008, we completed the sale of the GE Money business in Germany. In January 2009, we completed the sale of the remaining businesses, which are included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. In December 2008, we committed to sell a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. This sale is expected to be executed during the first quarter of 2009. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers captive finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales or sales prices. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas liquids. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Commercial Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS is a global leader in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions for commercial aircraft. Our airport financing unit makes debt and equity investments primarily in mid sized regional airports. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and intermodal). We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. (9) Consumer & Industrial Consumer & Industrial (6.4%, 7.3% and 8.7% of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Strong global competition rarely permits premium pricing, so cost control, including productivity, is key. Despite pricing pressures on many of our products, we also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable. While some Consumer & Industrial products are primarily directed to consumer applications (major appliances, for example), and some primarily to industrial applications (switchgear, for example), others are directed to both markets (lighting, for example). We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products, and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair, aftermarket parts and warranty administration. We also manufacture and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Consumer & Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. The aggregate level of economic activity in markets for such products and services generally lags overall economic slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries. In the U.S., industrial markets are undergoing significant structural changes reflecting, among other factors, increased international competition and continued commodity cost pressures. Our headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations comprised GE Money Japan; WMC; Plastics; Advanced Materials; GE Life, our U.K. based life insurance operation; the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses and the European life and health operations of GE Insurance Solutions Corporation (GE Insurance Solutions); and Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), our formerly wholly owned subsidiary that conducted most of our consumer insurance business, including life and mortgage insurance operations. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. (10) Orders Backlog GEs total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2008 was $70.5 billion, an increase of 7% from year end 2007, reflecting increased demand at Energy Infrastructure and Technology Infrastructure. Of the total backlog, $51.8 billion related to products, of which 60% was scheduled for delivery in 2009. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $18.7 billion at the end of 2008. Orders constituting this backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.0 billion in both 2008 and 2007, and $2.8 billion in 2006. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.7 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business and Energy Infrastructures Energy business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we consider amounts spent on product and services technology to include our reported research and development expenditures, but also amounts for improving our existing products and services, and the productivity of our plant, equipment and processes. On this basis, our technology expenditures in 2008 were $5.3 billion. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in 2008 and $0.2 billion in 2007. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in the range of $0.3 billion to $0.4 billion over the next two years. In November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for implementation of the EPAs 2002 decision to dredge polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. The dredging will be performed in two phases with an intervening peer review of performance after the first phase. Under the consent decree, we have committed to reimburse the EPA for its past and future project oversight costs and to perform the first phase of dredging, which is scheduled to proceed from May through November of 2009. After completion of the peer review, currently scheduled for 2010, we may be responsible for further costs. Our Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of the agreed upon remediation activities. Employee Relations At year end 2008, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 323,000 persons, of whom approximately 152,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 19,250 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 125 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 160 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. (11) Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Agencies of the U.S. Government constitute our largest single customer. An analysis of sales of goods and services as a percentage of revenues follows: % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 3 % 2 % 2 % 4 % 3 % 4 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 2 2 2 3 3 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.0 billion in both 2008 and 2007, and $2.8 billion in 2006. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.7 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business and Energy Infrastructures Energy business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we consider amounts spent on product and services technology to include our reported research and development expenditures, but also amounts for improving our existing products and services, and the productivity of our plant, equipment and processes. On this basis, our technology expenditures in 2008 were $5.3 billion. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in 2008 and $0.2 billion in 2007. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in the range of $0.3 billion to $0.4 billion over the next two years. In November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for implementation of the EPAs 2002 decision to dredge polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. The dredging will be performed in two phases with an intervening peer review of performance after the first phase. Under the consent decree, we have committed to reimburse the EPA for its past and future project oversight costs and to perform the first phase of dredging, which is scheduled to proceed from May through November of 2009. After completion of the peer review, currently scheduled for 2010, we may be responsible for further costs. Our Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of the agreed upon remediation activities. Employee Relations At year end 2008, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 323,000 persons, of whom approximately 152,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 19,250 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 125 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 160 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. (11) Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Agencies of the U.S. Government constitute our largest single customer. An analysis of sales of goods and services as a percentage of revenues follows: % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 3 % 2 % 2 % 4 % 3 % 4 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 2 2 2 3 3 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Operations Our consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services). In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section. We present Managements Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2006 through 2008, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations, Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations simply as revenues and earnings throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in our consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations unless otherwise indicated. Overview of Our Earnings from 2006 through 2008 Our results for the last three years reflect our strategy to strengthen our position as a worldwide growth company operating in diverse industries in which we maintain strong market leader positions. During 2008, we encountered unprecedented conditions in the world economy and financial markets that affected all of our businesses. Over the three year period our consolidated revenues grew 20% on organic growth that averaged 6% per year, yet earnings declined 6%. Our financial services businesses were most significantly affected as earnings fell 24% on a 16% increase in revenues over this three year period. The information that follows will show how our global diversification and risk management strategies have helped us to grow revenues and industrial earnings to record levels and to outperform our peers in financial services businesses. We also believe that the disposition of our less strategic businesses, our restructuring actions and our investment in businesses with strong growth potential have positioned us well for the future. Energy Infrastructure (19% and 18% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) was well positioned to grow significantly over the last several years as the worldwide demand for energy, and for alternative sources of power, such as wind and thermal, rose to new levels. This resulted in a 53% increase in revenues and a 73% increase in segment profit over the three year period. We continued to invest in market leading technology and services at Energy, Oil & Gas and Water. Technology Infrastructure (25% and 29% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) grew revenues 23% and earnings 12% over the three year period as we continued to invest in market leading technologies and services at Aviation and Transportation and strategic acquisitions at Healthcare. Aviation continued to grow revenues and earnings to record levels as one of the worlds leading providers of aircraft engines and services. The Aviation orders backlog also continued to grow, positioning us well for the future. Product services and sales of our Evolution Series locomotives contributed to Transportations growth over the last three years and we have invested heavily in expanding our global platform. Healthcare realized benefits from the acquisition of IDX Systems Corporation in 2006, expanding the breadth of our product and service offerings to the healthcare industry. Healthcare was adversely affected by the effects of the Deficit Reduction Act on U.S. equipment sales. In addition, lower sales of surgical imaging equipment resulted from a regulatory suspension on shipments at one of our facilities. We began shipping some of these products in the first half of 2008. Enterprise Solutions offers protection and productivity solutions such as safe facilities, plant automation, power control and sensing applications. NBC Universal (10% and 11% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company that has grown through business and geographic diversity. While the television business continues to be challenged by the effects of a difficult economy, our cable business continues to grow and become more profitable. Our film business also continues to perform well, with consistent contributions to earnings. (22) Capital Finance (37% and 39% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is a strong, focused business with leading positions in several mid market, corporate and consumer financing segments. Our performance has been strong over the long term, with solid risk management and underwriting through various credit cycles. More recently, we have been affected by economic changes, specifically the disruptions in capital markets, challenging credit market environment and rising unemployment. Our earnings in 2008 and 2007 were $8.6 billion and $12.2 billion, respectively. We expect the current challenging credit and economic environment to continue to affect our earnings in 2009. Throughout 2008, we tightened underwriting standards, shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk management focus. Our focus is to manage through the current challenging credit environment and reposition GE Capital as a diversely funded and smaller finance company. Consumer & Industrial (7% and 3% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Reflective of the downturn in the U.S. housing market, Consumer & Industrial revenues have declined over the three year period. In response to these tough economic conditions, in 2007, Consumer & Industrial began a restructuring plan focused on reducing manufacturing capacity and transferring work to lower cost countries. Despite these cost reduction efforts, segment profit declined on higher material and other costs. Overall, acquisitions contributed $7.4 billion, $7.7 billion and $3.9 billion to consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our consolidated earnings included approximately $0.8 billion in 2008, and $0.5 billion in both 2007 and 2006, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our ongoing results through higher revenues of $0.1 billion in 2008 and lower revenues of $3.6 billion and $1.3 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. This resulted in higher earnings of $0.4 billion in both 2008 and 2007, and $0.1 billion in 2006. Significant matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below. Discontinued Operations. In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In December 2007, we completed the exit of WMC as a result of continued pressures in the U.S. subprime mortgage industry. Both of these businesses were previously reported in the Capital Finance segment. In August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business. We sold this business because of its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw materials, and the decision to redeploy capital resources into higher growth businesses. During 2006, we sold our Advanced Materials business. In 2006, we substantially completed our planned exit of the insurance businesses through the sale of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses and the European life and health operations of GE Insurance Solutions Corporation (GE Insurance Solutions) and the sale of GE Life, our U.K. based life insurance operation, to Swiss Reinsurance Company (Swiss Re), and the sale, through a secondary public offering, of our remaining 18% investment in Genworth Financial, Inc. (Genworth), our formerly wholly owned subsidiary that conducted most of our consumer insurance business, including life and mortgage insurance operations. We reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Energy Infrastructure Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services, including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long term maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. The Oil & Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national, international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection and integrity services, remote diagnostic and monitoring and contractual service agreements. The acquisition of Hydril Pressure Controls in April 2008 strengthened the drilling solutions portfolio through the addition of blow out preventers, control technology and associated services. Technology Infrastructure Aviation products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Healthcare products include diagnostic imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR), computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging and ultrasound. Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, bone densitometry, anesthesiology, and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services, including equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, products used in the purification of biopharmaceuticals, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Transportation products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off highway vehicles, gearing technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power generation, and railway signaling and office systems. Enterprise Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies, including explosives and narcotics detection, intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, and fire detection and provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, computer numerical controls, operator interfaces, industrial computers, and lasers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions. Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential, commercial and industrial end users, including utilities, original equipment manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in global markets. NBC Universal Principal businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations, operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world, operation of theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. (125) Capital Finance CLL products include loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications and healthcare industries. GE Money offers a range of financial products including private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending on a global basis. Capital Finance also provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors, including leases, aircraft purchasing and trading, loans, engine/spare parts financing, fleet planning and financial advisory services. Financial products to the global energy and water industries include structured and common equity, debt, leasing, project finance, broad based commercial finance and investments in operating leases. Consumer & Industrial Products include major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system products. These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light emitting diodes. Electrical equipment and control products include lighting and power panels, switchgear, and circuit breakers. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private label brands. Revenues Total revenues(a) Intersegment revenues(b) External revenues (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Energy Infrastructure $ 38,571 $ 30,698 $ 25,221 $ 664 $ 351 $ 488 $ 37,907 $ 30,347 $ 24,733 Technology Infrastructure 46,316 42,801 37,687 273 113 216 46,043 42,688 37,471 NBC Universal 16,969 15,416 16,188 89 35 52 16,880 15,381 16,136 Capital Finance 67,008 66,301 56,378 1,333 1,128 1,013 65,675 65,173 55,365 Consumer & Industrial 11,737 12,663 13,202 196 143 235 11,541 12,520 12,967 Corporate items and eliminations 1,914 4,609 2,892 (2,555 ) (1,770 ) (2,004 ) 4,469 6,379 4,896 Total $ 182,515 $ 172,488 $ 151,568 $ $ $ $ 182,515 $ 172,488 $ 151,568 (a) Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. (b) Sales from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices. Revenues from customers located in the United States were $85,301 million, $86,247 million and $81,057 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenues from customers located outside the United States were $97,214 million, $86,241 million and $70,511 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (126) Assets(a)(b) Property, plant and equipment additions(c) Depreciation and amortization At December 31 For the years ended December 31 For the years ended December 31 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Energy Infrastructure $ 33,836 $ 31,466 $ 24,456 $ 1,226 $ 1,054 $ 867 $ 838 $ 774 $ 672 Technology Infrastructure 58,967 57,670 49,641 1,395 1,954 1,389 1,520 1,569 1,269 NBC Universal 33,781 33,089 31,425 131 306 352 354 357 361 Capital Finance 572,903 583,965 491,000 15,313 17,832 14,489 10,238 8,864 6,971 Consumer & Industrial 5,065 5,351 5,740 284 363 373 397 434 497 Corporate items and eliminations 93,217 84,142 95,011 281 247 195 221 310 262 Total $ 797,769 $ 795,683 $ 697,273 $ 18,630 $ 21,756 $ 17,665 $ 13,568 $ 12,308 $ 10,032 (a) Assets of discontinued operations are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods presented. (b) Total assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer & Industrial operating segments at December 31, 2008, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $640 million, $711 million, $954 million, $18,694 million and $394 million, respectively, which contributed approximately $91 million, $67 million, $134 million, $2,217 million and $33 million, respectively, to segment pre tax income for the year ended December 31, 2008. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total assets of $154,825 million, primarily financing receivables of $85,554 million; total liabilities of $128,959 million, primarily bank deposits of $65,514 million; revenues totaling $22,347 million; and net earnings totaling $3,583 million. (c) Additions to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal businesses purchased. Interest and other financial charges Provision (benefit) for income taxes (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Capital Finance $ 25,094 $ 22,611 $ 17,079 $ (1,914 ) $ 1,225 $ 1,560 Corporate items and eliminations(a) 1,115 1,151 1,800 2,966 2,930 2,384 Total $ 26,209 $ 23,762 $ 18,879 $ 1,052 $ 4,155 $ 3,944 (a) Included amounts for Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer & Industrial for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest and other financial charges and income taxes. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based in the United States were $27,667 million, $27,188 million and $25,699 million at year end 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based outside the United States were $50,863 million, $50,700 million and $44,929 million at year end 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. NOTE 28. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements, for all financial instruments and non financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis. SFAS 157 establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands related disclosures. Broadly, the SFAS 157 framework requires fair value to be determined based on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 establishes a three level valuation hierarchy based upon observable and non observable inputs. For financial assets and liabilities, fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. (127) Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. Preference is given to observable inputs. These two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable. Level 3 Significant inputs to the valuation model are unobservable. We maintain policies and procedures to value instruments using the best and most relevant data available. In addition, we have risk management teams that review valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments. Further, in other instances, we retain independent pricing vendors to assist in valuing certain instruments. The following section describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure different financial instruments at fair value. Investments in debt and equity securities When available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of investment securities, and they are included in Level 1. Level 1 securities primarily include publicly traded equity securities. When quoted market prices are unobservable, we use quotes from independent pricing vendors based on recent trading activity and other relevant information including market interest rate curves, referenced credit spreads and estimated prepayment rates where applicable. These investments are included in Level 2 and primarily comprise our portfolio of corporate fixed income, and government, mortgage and asset backed securities. In infrequent circumstances, our pricing vendors may provide us with valuations that are based on significant unobservable inputs, and in those circumstances we classify the investment securities in Level 3. As part of our adoption of SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2008, we conducted a review of our primary pricing vendor, with the assistance of an accounting firm, to validate that the inputs used in that vendors pricing process are deemed to be market observable as defined in the standard. More specifically, we used a combination of approaches to validate that the process used by the pricing vendor is consistent with the requirements of the standard and that the levels assigned to these valuations are reasonable. While we were not provided access to proprietary models of the vendor, our review included on site walk throughs of the pricing process, methodologies and control procedures for each asset class for which prices are provided. Our review also included an examination of the underlying inputs and assumptions for a sample of individual securities, a process we have continued to perform for each reporting period. Based on this examination, and the ongoing review performed, we believe that the valuations used in our financial statements are reasonable and are appropriately classified in the fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2008, the valuation provided by pricing services was $26,654 million and was classified in Level 2. The valuations provided by pricing services based on significant unobservable inputs was insignificant, and those investment securities are classified as Level 3. Retained interests in securitizations are valued using a discounted cash flow model that considers the underlying structure of the securitization and estimated net credit exposure, prepayment assumptions, discount rates and expected life. Investment securities priced using non binding broker quotes and retained interests are included in Level 3. We use non binding broker quotes as our primary basis for valuation when there is limited, or no, relevant market activity for a specific instrument or for other instruments that share similar characteristics. We have not adjusted the prices we have obtained. Level 3 investment securities valued using non binding broker quotes totaled $2,074 million at December 31, 2008, and were classified as available for sale securities. Level 3 retained interests totaled $6,356 million at December 31, 2008. (128) We receive one quote for Level 2 and Level 3 securities where third party quotes are used as our basis for fair value measurement. As is the case with our primary pricing vendor, third party providers of quotes do not provide access to their proprietary valuation models, inputs and assumptions. Accordingly, our risk management personnel conduct internal reviews of pricing for all such investment securities at least quarterly to ensure reasonableness of valuations used in our financial statements. These reviews are designed to identify prices that appear stale, those that have changed significantly from prior valuations, and other anomalies that may indicate that a price may not be accurate. We also follow established routines for reviewing and reconfirming valuations with the pricing provider, if deemed appropriate. In addition, the pricing vendor has an established challenge process in place for all security valuations, which facilitates identification and resolution of potentially erroneous prices. Based on the information available, we believe that the fair values provided by the brokers are consistent with the principles of SFAS 157. Private equity investments held in investment company affiliates are initially valued at cost. Valuations are reviewed at the end of each quarter utilizing available market data to determine whether or not any fair value adjustments are necessary. Such market data include any comparable public company trading multiples. Unobservable inputs include company specific fundamentals and other third party transactions in that security. Our valuation methodology for private equity investments is applied consistently, and these investments are generally included in Level 3. Derivatives We use closing prices for derivatives included in Level 1, which are traded either on exchanges or liquid over the counter markets. The majority of our derivatives portfolio is valued using internal models. The models maximize the use of market observable inputs including interest rate curves and both forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 2 primarily represent interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and foreign currency and commodity forward and option contracts. Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 3 primarily represent interest rate products that contain embedded optionality or prepayment features. Loans When available, we use observable market data, including pricing on recent closed market transactions, to value loans which are included in Level 2. When this data is unobservable, we use valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk, and such loans are included in Level 3. When appropriate, loans are valued using collateral values as a practical expedient. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. Upon adoption, we elected to report $172 million of commercial mortgage loans at fair value in order to have them on the same accounting basis (measured at fair value through earnings) as the derivatives economically hedging these loans. The following table presents our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2008. Included in the table are investment securities of $21,967 million, primarily supporting obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run off insurance operations, and $8,190 million supporting obligations to holders of guaranteed investment contracts. Such securities are primarily investment grade. In addition, the table includes $12,642 million and $5,236 million of derivative assets and liabilities, respectively, with highly rated counterparties, primarily used for risk management purposes. Also included are retained interests in securitizations totaling $6,356 million. (129) December 31, 2008 (In millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 FIN 39 netting(a) Net balance Assets Investment securities $ 1,158 $ 27,332 $ 12,956 $ $ 41,446 Derivatives(b) 18,911 1,142 (7,411 ) 12,642 Other(c) 1 288 1,105 1,394 Total $ 1,159 $ 46,531 $ 15,203 $ (7,411 ) $ 55,482 Liabilities Derivatives $ 2 $ 12,643 $ 166 $ (7,575 ) $ 5,236 Other(d) 1,031 1,031 Total $ 2 $ 13,674 $ 166 $ (7,575 ) $ 6,267 (a) FIN 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts, permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. Included fair value adjustments related to our own and counterparty credit risk. (b) The fair value of derivatives included an adjustment for our non performance risk. At December 31, 2008, the adjustment for our non performance risk was a gain of $177 million. (c) Included private equity investments and loans designated under the fair value option. (d) Primarily represented the liability associated with certain of our deferred incentive compensation plans accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue 97 14, Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested. The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments measured on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2008. The majority of our Level 3 balances consist of investment securities classified as available for sale with changes in fair value recorded in equity. Changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2008 (In millions) January 1, 2008 Net realized/ unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings(a) Net realized/ unrealized gains (losses) included in accumulated nonowner changes other than earnings Purchases, issuances and settlements Transfers in and or out of Level 3(b) December 31, 2008 Net change in unrealized gains (losses) relating to instruments still held at December 31, 2008(c) Investment securities $ 12,447 $ 430 $ (1,586 ) $ 671 $ 994 $ 12,956 $ 7 Derivatives(d)(e) 265 866 141 (256 ) (13 ) 1,003 636 Other 1,330 (157 ) (29 ) (90 ) 51 1,105 (165 ) Total $ 14,042 $ 1,139 $ (1,474 ) $ 325 $ 1,032 $ 15,064 $ 478 (a) Earnings effects are primarily included in the GECS revenues from services and Interest and other financial charges captions in the Statement of Earnings. (b) Transfers in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the period. Transfers into Level 3 were a result of increased use of non binding broker quotes that could not be validated with other market observable data, resulting from continued deterioration in the credit markets. (c) Represented the amount of total gains or losses for the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 that are still held at December 31, 2008. (d) Earnings from Derivatives were partially offset by $760 million in losses from related derivatives included in Level 2 and $4 million in losses from underlying debt obligations in qualifying fair value hedges. (e) Represented derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals of $27 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy table. (130) Certain assets that are carried on our Statement of Financial Position at historical cost, require fair value charges to earnings when they are deemed to be impaired. As these impairment charges are non recurring, they are not included in the preceding tables. Included in this category are certain loans that have been reduced for the fair value of their underlying collateral when deemed impaired, and cost and equity method investments that are written down to fair value when their declines are determined to be other than temporary. At December 31, 2008, these amounts were $48 million identified as Level 2 and $3,145 million identified as Level 3. Of assets still held at December 31, 2008, we recognized $587 million, pre tax, of losses related to non recurring fair value measurements of loans, and $495 million, pre tax, of other than temporary impairments of cost and equity method investments during 2008. NOTE 29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2008 2007 Assets (liabilities) Assets (liabilities) December 31 (In millions) Notional amount Carrying amount (net) Estimated fair value Notional amount Carrying amount (net) Estimated fair value GE Assets Investments and notes receivable $ (a) $ 269 $ 269 $ (a) $ 538 $ 538 Liabilities Borrowings(b) (a) (12,202 ) (12,267 ) (a) (15,762 ) (15,819 ) GECS Assets Loans (a) 305,376 292,797 (a) 309,623 307,425 Other commercial mortgages (a) 1,501 1,427 (a) 4,891 4,939 Loans held for sale (a) 3,640 3,670 (a) 3,808 3,809 Other financial instruments(c) (a) 2,637 2,810 (a) 2,764 3,150 Liabilities Borrowings(b)(d) (a) (514,601 ) (504,439 ) (a) (500,922 ) (503,607 ) Investment contract benefits (a) (4,212 ) (4,536 ) (a) (4,536 ) (4,914 ) Guaranteed investment contracts (a) (10,828 ) (10,677 ) (a) (11,705 ) (11,630 ) Insurance credit life(e) 1,165 (44 ) (31 ) 1,500 (35 ) (24 ) (a) These financial instruments do not have notional amounts. (b) See Note 18. (c) Principally cost method investments. (d) Included effects of interest rate and cross currency derivatives. (e) Net of reinsurance of $3,103 million and $2,815 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Assets and liabilities not carried at fair value in our Statement of Financial Position are discussed below. Consistent with SFAS 107, Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, the disclosure excludes finance leases and non financial assets and liabilities. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their fair values must often be determined using financial models. Realization of the fair value of these instruments depends upon market forces beyond our control, including marketplace liquidity. A description of how we estimate fair values follows. Estimates of fair value at December 31, 2008, were determined in accordance with SFAS 107, as amended by SFAS 157. Loans Based on quoted market prices, recent transactions and or discounted future cash flows, using rates we would charge to similar borrowers with similar maturities. Borrowings Valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data which are comparable to market quotes adjusted for our non performance risk. (131) Investment contract benefits Based on expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered rates for immediate annuity contracts or cash surrender values for single premium deferred annuities. Guaranteed investment contracts Based on valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data, adjusted for our non performance risk. All other instruments Based on observable market transactions, valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk and or quoted market prices. Assets and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at fair value are not included in the above disclosures; such items include cash and equivalents, investment securities and derivative financial instruments. Additional information about certain categories in the table above follows. Insurance credit life Certain insurance affiliates, primarily in GE Money, issue credit life insurance designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan is repaid. As part of our overall risk management process, we cede to third parties a portion of this associated risk, but are not relieved of our primary obligation to policyholders. Loan commitments Notional amount December 31 (In millions) 2008 2007 Ordinary course of business lending commitments(a)(b) $ 8,507 $ 11,731 Unused revolving credit lines(c) Commercial 25,011 24,554 Consumer principally credit cards 252,867 477,285 (a) Excluded investment commitments of $3,501 million and $4,864 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Included a $1,067 million secured commitment associated with an arrangement that can increase to a maximum of $4,943 million based on the asset volume under the arrangement. (c) Excluded inventory financing arrangements, which may be withdrawn at our option, of $14,503 million and $14,654 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Derivatives and hedging We conduct our business activities in diverse markets around the world, including countries where obtaining local funding is sometimes inefficient. The nature of our activities exposes us to changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. We manage such risks using various techniques including issuing debt whose terms correspond to terms of the funded assets, as well as combinations of debt and derivatives that achieve our objectives. We also are exposed to various commodity price risks and address certain of these risks with commodity contracts. By policy, we do not use derivatives for speculative purposes. We value derivatives that are not exchange traded with internal market based valuation models. When necessary, we also obtain information from our derivative counterparties to validate our models and to value the few products that our internal models do not address. We use interest rate swaps, currency derivatives and commodity derivatives to reduce the variability of expected future cash flows associated with variable rate borrowings and commercial purchase and sale transactions, including commodities. We use interest rate swaps, currency swaps and interest rate and currency forwards to hedge the fair value effects of interest rate and currency exchange rate changes on local and non functional currency denominated fixed rate borrowings and certain types of fixed rate assets. We use currency swaps and forwards to protect our net investments in global operations conducted in non U.S. dollar currencies. We intend all of these positions to qualify as hedges and to be accounted for as hedges. (132) We use swaps, futures and option contracts, including caps, floors and collars, as economic hedges of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and equity prices on certain types of assets and liabilities. We sometimes use credit default swaps to economically hedge the credit risk of various counterparties with which we have entered into loan or leasing arrangements. We occasionally obtain equity warrants as part of sourcing or financing transactions. Although these instruments are derivatives, their economic risks are similar to, and managed on the same basis as, risks of other equity instruments we hold. These instruments are marked to market through earnings. Earnings effects of derivatives designated as hedges The following table provides information about the earnings effects of derivatives designated and qualifying as hedges. Pre tax gains (losses) December 31 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Cash flow hedges Ineffectiveness $ 8 $ (3 ) $ 10 Amounts excluded from the measure of effectiveness 5 (17 ) (16 ) Fair value hedges Ineffectiveness (600 ) 7 (47 ) Amounts excluded from the measure of effectiveness (26 ) (13 ) 33 Ineffectiveness primarily related to changes in the present value of the initial credit spread over the benchmark interest rate associated with hedges of our fixed rate borrowings. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized insignificant gains and losses related to hedged forecasted transactions and firm commitments that did not occur by the end of the originally specified period. Guarantees of Derivatives We do not sell credit default swaps; however, as a part of our risk management services, we provide performance guarantees to third party financial institutions related to plain vanilla interest rate swaps on behalf of certain customers related to variable rate loans we have extended to them. The underwriting risk inherent in these arrangements is essentially similar to that of a fixed rate loan. Under these arrangements, the guarantee is secured, usually by the asset being purchased or financed, or by other assets of the guaranteed party. In addition, these agreements are underwritten to provide for collateral value that exceeds the combination of the loan amount and the initial expected future exposure of the derivative. These credit support arrangements mature on the same date as the related financing arrangements or transactions and are across a broad spectrum of diversified industries and companies. The fair value of our guarantee is $28 million at December 31, 2008. Because we are guaranteeing the performance of the customer under these arrangements, our exposure to loss at any point in time is limited to the fair value of the customers derivative contracts that are in a liability position. The aggregate termination value of such contracts at December 31, 2008, was $386 million before consideration of any offsetting effect of collateral. At December 31, 2008, collateral value was sufficient to cover the loan amount and the fair value of the customers derivative, in the event we had been called upon to perform under the guarantee. If we assumed that, on January 1, 2009, interest rates moved unfavorably by 100 basis points across the yield curve (a parallel shift in that curve), the effect on the fair value of such contracts, without considering any potential offset of the underlying collateral, would have been an increase of $161 million. Given our strict underwriting criteria, we believe the likelihood that we will be required to perform under the guarantee is remote. Additional information regarding our use of derivatives is provided in Note 18 and Note 23. Counterparty credit risk We manage counterparty credit risk, the risk that counterparties will default and not make payments to us according to the terms of the agreements, on an individual counterparty basis. Thus, when a legal right of offset exists, we net certain exposures by counterparty and include the value of collateral to determine the amount of ensuing exposure. When net exposure to a counterparty, based on the current market values of agreements and collateral, exceeds credit exposure limits (see following table), we take action to reduce exposure. Such actions include prohibiting additional transactions with the counterparty, requiring collateral from the counterparty (as described below) and terminating or restructuring transactions. (133) Swaps are required to be executed under master agreements containing mutual credit downgrade provisions that provide the ability to require assignment or termination in the event either party is downgraded below A3 or A. In certain cases we have entered into collateral arrangements that provide us with the right to hold collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury or other highly rated securities) when the current market value of derivative contracts exceeds a specified limit. We evaluate credit risk exposures and compliance with credit exposure limits net of such collateral. Fair values of our derivatives can change significantly from period to period based on, among other factors, market movements and changes in our positions. At December 31, 2008, our exposure to counterparties, after consideration of netting arrangements and collateral, was about $1,800 million. Following is GECS policy relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties. Counterparty Credit Criteria Credit rating Moodys S&P Foreign exchange forwards and other derivatives less than one year P 1 A 1 All derivatives between one and five years Aa3 (a) AA (a) All derivatives greater than five years Aaa (a) AAA (a) (a) Counterparties that have an obligation to provide collateral to cover credit exposure in accordance with a credit support agreement must have a minimum A3/A rating. Exposure Limits (In millions) Minimum rating Exposure(a) Without With collateral collateral Moodys S&P arrangements arrangements Aaa AAA $100 $75 Aa3 AA 50 50 A3 A 5 (a) For derivatives with maturities less than one year, counterparties are permitted to have unsecured exposure up to $150 million with a minimum rating of A 1/P 1. Exposure to a counterparty is determined net of collateral. NOTE 30. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset backed financing in the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns. The securitization transactions we engage in are similar to those used by many financial institutions. Beyond improving returns, these securitization transactions serve as funding sources for a variety of diversified lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both GE supported and third party Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) to execute off balance sheet securitization transactions funded in the commercial paper and term markets. Investors in these entities only have recourse to the assets owned by the entity and not to our general credit, unless noted below. We did not provide non contractual support to consolidated or unconsolidated VIEs in either 2008 or 2007. We do not have implicit support arrangements with any VIEs. (134) Variable Interest Entities When evaluating whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE and must therefore consolidate the entity, we perform a qualitative analysis that considers the design of the VIE, the nature of our involvement and the variable interests held by other parties. If that evaluation is inconclusive as to which party absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses or residual returns, a quantitative analysis is performed to determine who is the primary beneficiary. The largest single category of VIEs that we are involved with are Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs), which meet specific characteristics defined in U.S. GAAP that exclude them from the scope of consolidation standards. Consolidated Variable Interest Entities Upon adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46(R) on July 1, 2003 and January 1, 2004, respectively, we consolidated certain VIEs with $54.0 billion of assets and $52.6 billion of liabilities, which are further described below. At December 31, 2008, assets and liabilities of those VIEs, and additional VIEs consolidated as a result of subsequent acquisitions of financial companies, totaled $26,626 million and $21,256 million, respectively (at December 31, 2007, assets and liabilities were $32,382 million and $24,342 million, respectively). The VIEs included in our consolidated financial statements include the following: Securitization entities that hold financing receivables and other financial assets. Since they were consolidated in 2003, these assets have continued to run off; totaled $4,000 million at December 31, 2008; and are included in Note 12 ($5,013 million in 2007). There has been no significant difference between the performance of these financing receivables and our on book receivables on a blended basis. The liabilities of these securitization entities, which consist primarily of commercial paper, totaled $3,868 million at December 31, 2008, and are included in Note 18 ($4,834 million in 2007). Contractually the cash flows from these financing receivables must first be used to pay down outstanding commercial paper and interest thereon as well as other expenses of the entity. Excess cash flows are available to GE. The creditors of these entities have no claim on the other assets of GE. If the short term credit rating of GE Capital or these entities were reduced below A1/P1, we would be required to provide substitute liquidity for those entities or provide funds to retire the outstanding commercial paper. The maximum net amount that we would be required to provide in the event of such a downgrade is determined by contract, and totaled $3,753 million at December 31, 2008. As the borrowings of these entities are already reflected in our consolidated Statement of Financial Position, there would be no change in our debt if this were to occur. Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities, which invests in a portfolio of mainly investment grade investment securities using proceeds raised from guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) it issues to investors (principally municipalities). At December 31, 2008, these entities held $8,190 million of investment securities, included in Note 9, and $1,002 million of cash and other assets ($11,101 million and $517 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007). The associated guaranteed investment contract liabilities, included in Note 19, were $10,828 million and $11,705 million at the end of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If the long term credit rating of GE Capital were to fall below AA /Aa3 or its short term credit rating were to fall below A 1+/P 1, GE Capital would be required to provide approximately $3,493 million of capital to such entities as of December 31, 2008, pursuant to letters of credit issued by GE Capital. To the extent that the entities liabilities exceed the ultimate value of the proceeds from the sale of their assets and the amount drawn under the letters of credit, GE Capital could be required to provide such excess amount. As of December 31, 2008, the value of these entities liabilities was $10,749 million and the fair value of their assets was $9,191 million (which included unrealized losses on investment securities of $2,055 million). With respect to these investment securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability to hold all such debt securities until maturity. As the borrowings of these entities are already reflected in our consolidated Statement of Financial Position, there would be no change in our debt if this were to occur. Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (Penske), a rental truck leasing joint venture. The total consolidated assets and liabilities of Penske at December 31, 2008, were $7,444 million and $1,339 million, respectively, ($8,075 million and $1,482 million at December 31, 2007, respectively). Penskes main consolidated asset is property, plant and equipment leased to others, included in Note 14, which totaled $5,499 million at December 31, 2008, ($6,100 million at December 31, 2007). There are no recourse arrangements between GE and Penske. (135) The remaining assets and liabilities of VIEs that are included in our consolidated financial statements were acquired in transactions subsequent to adoption of FIN 46(R) on January 1, 2004. Assets of these entities consist of amortizing securitizations of financial assets originated by acquirees in Australia and Japan, and real estate partnerships. There are no recourse arrangements between GE and these entities. Off Balance Sheet Entities The vast majority of our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs relates to our securitization activities and is detailed in the table below. Our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs consists of the following activities: assisting in the formation and financing of an entity, providing recourse and or liquidity support, servicing the assets and receiving variable fees for services provided. The classification in our financial statements of our variable interests in these entities depends on the nature of the entity. As described below, our retained interests in securitization related VIEs and QSPEs is reported in financing receivables or investment securities depending on its legal form. Variable interests in partnerships and corporate entities would be classified as either equity method or cost method investments. In the ordinary course of business, we make equity investments in entities in which we are not the primary beneficiary, but may hold a variable interest such as limited partner equity interests or mezzanine debt investment. These investments totaled $2,871 million at year end 2008 and are classified in two captions in our financial statements. At December 31, 2008, All other assets included investments in entities accounted for under either the equity method or the cost method, which totaled $1,897 million ($1,089 million at December 31, 2007). In addition, at December 31, 2008, we held financing receivables, included in Note 12, totaling $974 million ($567 million at December 31, 2007) representing debt financing provided to these VIEs. Our maximum exposure to loss related to such entities at December 31, 2008, was $4,030 million ($2,559 million at December 31, 2007), and includes our investment in the unconsolidated VIEs and our contractual obligations to fund new investments by the entities. None of these investments is individually significant. We transfer assets to QSPEs in the ordinary course of business as part of our ongoing securitization activities. In our securitization transactions, we transfer assets to a QSPE in exchange for cash, which is funded by beneficial interests issued by the QSPE to third parties and our retained interests in the assets transferred. The financing receivables in our QSPEs have similar risks and characteristics to our on book financing receivables and were underwritten to the same standard. Accordingly, the performance of these assets has been similar to our on book financing receivables; however, the blended performance of the pools of receivables in our QSPEs reflects the eligibility screening requirements that we apply to determine which receivables are selected for sale. Therefore, the blended performance can differ from the on book performance. When we securitize financing receivables we retain interests in the transferred receivables in two forms: a sellers interest in the assets of the QSPE, which we classify as financing receivables, and subordinated interests in the assets of the QSPE, which we classify as investment securities. Other than those entities described above, we also hold passive investments in RMBS, CMBS and asset backed securities issued by entities that may be either VIEs or QSPEs. Such investments were, by design, investment grade at issuance and held by a diverse group of investors. As we have no formal involvement in such entities beyond our investment, we believe that the likelihood is remote that we would be required to consolidate them. Further information about such investments is provided in Note 9. (136) Financing receivables transferred to securitization entities that remain outstanding and our retained interests in those financing receivables at December 31, 2008 and 2007, follows. December 31 (In millions) Equipment (a)(b) Commercial real estate (b) Credit card receivables Other assets (b) Total assets 2008 Asset amount outstanding $ 13,298 $ 7,970 $ 26,046 $ 5,250 $ 52,564 Included within the amount above are retained interests of: Financing receivables(c) 339 3,802 4,141 Investment securities 747 222 4,806 532 6,307 2007 Asset amount outstanding $ 15,566 $ 9,244 $ 26,248 $ 5,067 $ 56,125 Included within the amount above are retained interests of: Financing receivables(c) 764 3,455 4,219 Investment securities 763 454 3,922 535 5,674 (a) Includes inventory floorplan receivables. (b) In certain equipment and commercial real estate transactions entered into prior to December 31, 2004, we provided contractual credit and liquidity support to third parties who purchased debt in the QSPEs. We have not entered into additional arrangements since that date. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, liquidity support amounted to $2,143 million and $2,810 million, respectively. Credit support amounted to $2,164 million and $2,804 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Liabilities with recourse obligations related to off balance sheet assets were $8 million and $3 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The maximum exposure to loss under these obligations was $124 million and $99 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (c) Uncertificated sellers interests. We have not provided non contractual support to any QSPEs in 2008 or 2007. We do not have any implicit support arrangements with QSPEs. (137) Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions When we transfer financing receivables, we determine the fair value of retained interests received as part of the securitization transaction in accordance with SFAS 157. Further information about how fair value is determined is presented in Note 28. Retained interests in securitized receivables that are classified as investment securities are reported at fair value in each reporting period. These assets decrease as cash is received on the underlying financing receivables. Retained interests classified as financing receivables are accounted for the same as our on book financing receivables. Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests classified as investment securities and the sensitivity of the current fair value to changes in those assumptions related to all outstanding retained interests at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were: (In millions) Equipment Commercial real estate Credit card receivables Other assets 2008 Discount rate(a) 17.6 % 25.8 % 15.1 % 13.4 % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (15 ) $ (14 ) $ (53 ) $ (1 ) 20% adverse change (30 ) (26 ) (105 ) (3 ) Prepayment rate(a)(b) 19.5 % 11.3 % 9.6 % 52.0 % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (2 ) $ (3 ) $ (60 ) $ 20% adverse change (5 ) (7 ) (118 ) (1 ) Estimate of credit losses(a) 0.7 % 1.3 % 16.2 % % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (5 ) $ (2 ) $ (223 ) $ 20% adverse change (10 ) (4 ) (440 ) Remaining weighted average asset lives (in months) 14 55 10 4 Net credit losses $ 91 $ 1 $ 1,815 $ 5 Delinquencies 139 56 1,833 80 2007 Discount rate(a) 13.7 % 15.2 % 14.8 % 14.9 % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (11 ) $ (20 ) $ (36 ) $ (3 ) 20% adverse change (22 ) (38 ) (72 ) (6 ) Prepayment rate(a)(b) 16.4 % 3.4 % 10.8 % 35.1 % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (7 ) $ (5 ) $ (80 ) $ (2 ) 20% adverse change (12 ) (9 ) (148 ) (4 ) Estimate of credit losses(a) 1.2 % 1.0 % 9.0 % 0.1 % Effect of 10% adverse change $ (5 ) $ (8 ) $ (110 ) $ (1 ) 20% adverse change (9 ) (13 ) (222 ) (1 ) Remaining weighted average lives (in months) 16 53 8 24 Net credit losses $ 55 $ 1 $ 941 $ Delinquencies 53 12 1,514 27 (a) Based on weighted averages. (b) Represented a payment rate on credit card receivables, inventory financing receivables (included within equipment) and trade receivables (included within other assets). (138) Activity related to retained interests classified as investment securities in our consolidated financial statements follows. (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Cash flows on transfers Proceeds from new transfers $ 6,655 $ 22,767 $ 19,288 Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving period transfers 70,144 61,625 46,944 Cash flows on retained interests recorded as investment securities 5,935 4,265 2,964 Effect on GECS revenues from services Net gain on sale $ 1,133 $ 1,805 $ 1,187 Change in fair value on SFAS 155 retained interests (113 ) (102 ) Other than temporary impairments (330 ) (114 ) (37 ) Derivative activities The QSPEs use derivatives to manage interest rate risk between the assets and liabilities. At inception of the transaction, the QSPE will enter into derivative contracts to receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate with terms that effectively match those of the financial assets held. In some cases, we are the counterparty to such derivative contracts, in which case a second derivative is executed with a third party to substantially eliminate the exposure created by the first derivative. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of such derivative contracts was $752 million ($134 million at December 31, 2007). We have no other derivatives arrangements with QSPEs or other VIEs. Servicing activities As part of a securitization transaction, we may provide servicing in exchange for a market based fee that is determined on principal balances. Where the fee does not represent market based compensation for these services, a servicing asset or liability is recorded, as appropriate. The fair value of the servicing asset or liability is subject to credit, prepayment and interest rate risk. Servicing assets and liabilities are amortized to earnings in proportion to and over the period of servicing activity. The amount of our servicing assets and liabilities was insignificant at December 31, 2008 and 2007. We received servicing fees from QSPEs of $641 million, $566 million and $381 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. When we provide servicing as an Aaa rated provider we are contractually permitted to commingle cash collected from customers on financing receivables sold to investors with our own cash prior to payment to a QSPE. At December 31, 2008, the balance owed to QSPEs from such collections and included in cash and equivalents was $4,446 million ($5,121 million at December 31, 2007). Balances owed by QSPE to GE at December 31, 2008, and included in other GECS receivables, were $2,346 million, principally for receivable purchases ($3,507 million at December 31, 2007). NOTE 31. COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES Commitments, including guarantees In our Aviation business of Technology Infrastructure, we had committed to provide financial assistance on $1,291 million of future customer acquisitions of aircraft equipped with our engines, including commitments made to airlines in 2008 for future sales under our GE90 and GEnx engine campaigns. The GECAS business of Capital Finance had placed multiple year orders for various Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $17,248 million and secondary orders with airlines for used aircraft of approximately $1,653 million at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, NBC Universal had $8,102 million of commitments to acquire film and television programming, including U.S. television rights to future Olympic Games and National Football League games, contractual commitments under various creative talent arrangements and various other arrangements requiring payments through 2014. At December 31, 2008, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements beyond those provided on behalf of securitization entities. See Note 30. (139) Credit Support. We have provided $9,151 million of credit support on behalf of certain customers or associated companies, predominantly joint ventures and partnerships, using arrangements such as standby letters of credit and performance guarantees. These arrangements enable these customers and associated companies to execute transactions or obtain desired financing arrangements with third parties. Should the customer or associated company fail to perform under the terms of the transaction or financing arrangement, we would be required to perform on their behalf. Under most such arrangements, our guarantee is secured, usually by the asset being purchased or financed, but possibly by certain other assets of the customer or associated company. The length of these credit support arrangements parallels the length of the related financing arrangements or transactions. The liability for such credit support was $72 million for December 31, 2008. Indemnification Agreements. These are agreements that require us to fund up to $693 million under residual value guarantees on a variety of leased equipment. Under most of our residual value guarantees, our commitment is secured by the leased asset at termination of the lease. The liability for these indemnification agreements was $332 million at December 31, 2008. We had $1,742 million of other indemnification commitments arising primarily from sales of businesses or assets. Contingent Consideration. These are agreements to provide additional consideration in a business combination to the seller if contractually specified conditions related to the acquired entity are achieved. At December 31, 2008, we had total maximum exposure for future estimated payments of $118 million, of which none was earned and payable. Our guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these guarantees considering economic, liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty. We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We record liabilities for guarantees at estimated fair value, generally the amount of the premium received, or if we do not receive a premium, the amount based on appraisal, observed market values or discounted cash flows. Any associated expected recoveries from third parties are recorded as other receivables, not netted against the liabilities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the likelihood that we will be called upon to perform on these guarantees is remote. Product Warranties We provide for estimated product warranty expenses when we sell the related products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best available information mostly historical claims experience claims costs may differ from amounts provided. An analysis of changes in the liability for product warranties follows. (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Balance at January 1 $ 1,541 $ 1,339 $ 1,240 Current year provisions 1,038 827 829 Expenditures(a) (917 ) (763 ) (729 ) Other changes 13 138 (1 ) Balance at December 31 $ 1,675 $ 1,541 $ 1,339 (a) Primarily related to Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure. (140) NOTE 32. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter (In millions; per share amounts in dollars) 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Consolidated operations Earnings from continuing operations $ 4,351 $ 4,911 $ 5,394 $ 5,608 $ 4,477 $ 5,111 $ 3,867 $ 6,827 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (47 ) (340 ) (322 ) (226 ) (165 ) 448 (145 ) (131 ) Net earnings $ 4,304 $ 4,571 $ 5,072 $ 5,382 $ 4,312 $ 5,559 $ 3,722 $ 6,696 Preferred stock dividends declared (75 ) Net earnings attributable to common shareowners $ 4,304 $ 4,571 $ 5,072 $ 5,382 $ 4,312 $ 5,559 $ 3,647 $ 6,696 Per share amounts earnings from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share $ 0.43 $ 0.48 $ 0.54 $ 0.54 $ 0.45 $ 0.50 $ 0.36 $ 0.68 Basic earnings per share 0.44 0.48 0.54 0.55 0.45 0.50 0.36 0.68 Per share amounts earnings (loss) from discontinued operations Diluted earnings per share (0.03 ) (0.03 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) 0.04 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Basic earnings per share (0.03 ) (0.03 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) 0.04 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Per share amounts net earnings Diluted earnings per share 0.43 0.44 0.51 0.52 0.43 0.54 0.35 0.66 Basic earnings per share 0.43 0.44 0.51 0.52 0.43 0.55 0.35 0.67 Selected data GE Sales of goods and services $ 24,186 $ 21,688 $ 27,846 $ 24,269 $ 28,868 $ 24,690 $ 31,114 $ 29,149 Gross profit from sales 6,280 5,660 7,302 6,537 6,930 6,357 8,229 7,757 GECS Total revenues 18,038 17,409 19,032 17,170 18,431 18,066 15,786 19,291 Earnings from continuing operations 2,456 3,407 2,774 2,416 2,010 3,219 534 3,375 For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods and services sold. Earnings per share amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of each quarters per share amount may not equal the total per share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters. Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Not applicable. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008, and (ii) no change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2008, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, 
 
