Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Technology Infrastructure Technology Infrastructure (27.1%, 25.4% and 24.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of essential technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world, we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology infrastructure. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Aviation Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs. (5) Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC. Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft. We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long term maintenance contracts. The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards. Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other. Enterprise Solutions Enterprise Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions. Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential, commercial and industrial end users, including utilities, original equipment manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in global markets. During 2009, Enterprise Solutions sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. GE also dissolved its joint venture with FANUC Ltd. resulting in GE retaining the global software, services, embedded systems and control systems businesses. In addition, during 2009 GE signed a definitive agreement with United Technologies Corporation to sell our security and life safety solutions business, GE Security. The sale is expected to close in early 2010. (6) Effective January 1, 2010, the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business was included in our newly created segment, Home & Business Solutions. The Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy businesses became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business will be reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations pending its expected sale. Healthcare Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping them to tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the ER, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With X ray, digital mammography, Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates industry leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the latest in cellular technologies. Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management and customer productivity services. We compete with a variety of U.S. and non U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout the world, we play a role in delivering new technology to improve patient outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA, as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. Transportation Transportation provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical applications such as wind turbines. Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. (7) NBC Universal NBC Universal (NBCU) (9.8%, 9.3% and 8.9% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBCU, which is 80 percent owned by General Electric and 20 percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our film company, Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world wide distribution of theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. Our cable/satellite television networks include USA, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve 234 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. On December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporations cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU assets and liabilities as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The transaction is subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is expected to close within the next year. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Capital Finance Capital Finance (32.3%, 36.7% and 38.4% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. During 2009, General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) provided $72 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended $74 billion of credit to approximately 54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 14,200 new commercial customers and 40,000 new small businesses during 2009 in the U.S. and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 346,000 commercial customers and 174,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (8) Within our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. Capital Finance has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI) over the next three years. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization. Commercial Lending and Leasing CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and the credit card business in Ireland. Historically, we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers in over 40 countries around the world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. In December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In the third quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which comprised our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. (9) In October 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In early 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A., which were included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC). Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers captive finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas liquids. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (10) GE Capital Aviation Services GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and intermodal). We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. Consumer & Industrial Consumer & Industrial (6.2%, 6.4% and 7.3% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. While some Consumer & Industrial products such as major appliances are primarily directed to consumer applications, and some primarily to industrial applications such as switchgear, others, such as lighting, are directed to both markets. We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Consumer & Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. Effective January 1, 2010, the Industrial business became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment and the Appliances and Lighting portion of the Consumer and Industrial business became part of our newly created segment, Home & Business Solutions. Our headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. (7) NBC Universal NBC Universal (NBCU) (9.8%, 9.3% and 8.9% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBCU, which is 80 percent owned by General Electric and 20 percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our film company, Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world wide distribution of theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. Our cable/satellite television networks include USA, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve 234 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. On December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporations cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU assets and liabilities as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The transaction is subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is expected to close within the next year. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Capital Finance Capital Finance (32.3%, 36.7% and 38.4% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. During 2009, General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) provided $72 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended $74 billion of credit to approximately 54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 14,200 new commercial customers and 40,000 new small businesses during 2009 in the U.S. and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 346,000 commercial customers and 174,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (8) Within our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. Capital Finance has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI) over the next three years. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization. Commercial Lending and Leasing CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and the credit card business in Ireland. Historically, we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers in over 40 countries around the world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. In December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In the third quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which comprised our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. (9) In October 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In early 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A., which were included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC). Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers captive finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas liquids. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (10) GE Capital Aviation Services GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and intermodal). We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. Consumer & Industrial Consumer & Industrial (6.2%, 6.4% and 7.3% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. While some Consumer & Industrial products such as major appliances are primarily directed to consumer applications, and some primarily to industrial applications such as switchgear, others, such as lighting, are directed to both markets. We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Consumer & Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. Effective January 1, 2010, the Industrial business became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment and the Appliances and Lighting portion of the Consumer and Industrial business became part of our newly created segment, Home & Business Solutions. Our headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Orders Backlog GEs total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2009 was $67.3 billion, a decrease of 4% from year end 2008, reflecting decreased demand at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.3 billion related to products, of which 61% was scheduled for delivery in 2010. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $21.0 billion at the end of 2009. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were approximately $108 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175 billion at December 31, 2009. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.2 billion in 2009 and included our reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion over the next two years. (12) In November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for implementation of EPAs 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer review panels recommendations, GEs proposed changes, and its own analysis, will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPAs decision, GE has 90 days to either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of the project under the consent decree. Employee Relations At year end 2009, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 304,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 110 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,400 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. (13) Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 4 % 3 % 2 % 6 % 4 % 3 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 3 2 2 5 3 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.2 billion in 2009 and included our reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion over the next two years. (12) In November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for implementation of EPAs 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer review panels recommendations, GEs proposed changes, and its own analysis, will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPAs decision, GE has 90 days to either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of the project under the consent decree. Employee Relations At year end 2009, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 304,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 110 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,400 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. (13) Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 4 % 3 % 2 % 6 % 4 % 3 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 3 2 2 5 3 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Operations Our consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services). In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section. We present Managements Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2007 through 2009, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations, Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company simply as revenues and earnings throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in our consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations unless otherwise indicated. Effective January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer & Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization, we created a new segment called Home & Business Solutions that includes the Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer & Industrial segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous Consumer & Industrial segment and the Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy businesses of our previous Enterprise Solutions business are now part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business of Enterprise Solutions will be reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations pending its expected sale. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization described above. Overview of Our Earnings from 2007 through 2009 Net earnings attributable to the Company decreased 37% in 2009 and 22% in 2008, reflecting the challenging economic conditions of the last two years and the effect on both our industrial and financial services businesses. Our financial services businesses were most significantly affected as GECS net earnings attributable to the Company fell 80% in 2009 and 32% in 2008. Excluding the financial services businesses, our net earnings attributable to the Company decreased 7% in 2009 and 13% in 2008, reflecting the weakened global economy and challenging market conditions. We believe that we are beginning to see signs of stabilization in the global economy. We have a strong backlog entering 2010 and are positioned for global growth in 2011 and 2012. Energy Infrastructure (21% and 24% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) has grown significantly over the last several years as the worldwide demand for energy, and for alternative sources of power, such as wind and thermal, rose to new levels. Revenues decreased 4% in 2009 after increasing 26% in 2008, and segment profit increased 13% and 26% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We continue to invest in market leading technology and services at Energy and Oil & Gas. (26) Technology Infrastructure (26% and 31% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) revenues and earnings both fell 8% in 2009 after rising 8% and 3%, respectively, in 2008. We continue to invest in market leading technologies and services at Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Aviation generated strong revenues and earnings as one of the worlds leading providers of aircraft engines and services. Healthcare revenues and earnings trended down in 2009, reflecting the generally weak global economic conditions and continued uncertainty in the healthcare markets. Transportation revenues and earnings fell 24% and 51%, respectively, in 2009 after rising 11% and 3%, respectively, in 2008 as the weakened economy has driven overall reductions in U.S. freight traffic and we updated our estimate of long term product service costs. NBC Universal (NBCU) (9% and 11% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company that has grown over the past several years through business and geographic diversity. NBCU revenues fell 9% and earnings decreased 28% in 2009 compared with a 10% increase in revenues and flat earnings in 2008. While the television and film businesses continue to be challenged by the effects of a difficult economy, our cable business continues to grow and become more profitable. In 2010, we expect to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporations cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU assets and liabilities as held for sale in our Statement of Financial Position. Capital Finance (36% and 31% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) earnings declined to $2.3 billion and $8.6 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively, in a challenging economic environment, including disruptions in capital markets, challenging credit markets and rising unemployment. Throughout 2008 and 2009, we tightened underwriting standards, shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk management focus. We also reduced our ending net investment (ENI), excluding the effects of currency exchange rates, from $525 billion at December 31, 2008 to $472 billion at December 31, 2009. The current credit cycle has begun to show signs of stabilization and we expect further signs of stabilization as we enter 2010. Our focus is to continue to manage through the current challenging credit environment and continue to reposition General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) as a diversely funded and smaller, more focused finance company with strong positions in several mid market, corporate and consumer financing segments. Consumer & Industrial (7% and 2% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Reflective of the downturn in the U.S. housing market, Consumer & Industrial revenues have declined 17% in 2009 and 7% in 2008. Over the past two years, Consumer & Industrial has worked to reposition its business by eliminating capacity in its incandescent lighting manufacturing sites and investing in energy efficient product manufacturing in locations such as Louisville, Kentucky and Bloomington, Indiana. Segment profit increased 10% in 2009 on higher prices and lower material costs and reflects these cost reduction efforts after declining 65% in 2008, primarily on higher material and other costs. Overall, acquisitions contributed $3.4 billion, $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion to consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, excluding the effects of acquisition gains following our adoption of an amendment to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810, Consolidation. Our consolidated net earnings included approximately $0.5 billion, $0.8 billion and $0.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our ongoing results through lower revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, higher revenues of $0.1 billion in 2008 and lower revenues of $3.6 billion in 2007. The effects of dispositions on net earnings were increases of $0.6 billion in 2009 and $0.4 billion in both 2008 and 2007. Significant matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below. (27) Discontinued Operations. In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In December 2007, we completed the exit of WMC as a result of continued pressures in the U.S. subprime mortgage industry. Both of these businesses were previously reported in the Capital Finance segment. In August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business. We sold this business because of its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw materials, and the decision to redeploy capital resources into higher growth businesses. We reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Energy Infrastructure Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services, including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long term maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. The Oil & Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems including blowout preventors, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national, international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection and integrity services, remote monitoring and diagnostic, and contractual service agreements. Technology Infrastructure Aviation products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Healthcare products include diagnostic imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR), computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging and ultrasound. Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, bone densitometry, anesthesiology, and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services, including equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, products used in the purification of biopharmaceuticals, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Transportation products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off highway vehicles, gearing technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power generation, and railway signaling and office systems. (164) Enterprise Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions. Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential, commercial and industrial end users, including utilities, original equipment manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in global markets. NBC Universal Principal businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations, operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world, operation of theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Capital Finance CLL products include loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. Consumer offers a range of financial products including private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending on a global basis. Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Energy Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy and water industries including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, product finance, and broad based commercial finance. GECAS provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors, including leases, and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. Consumer & Industrial Products include major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system products. These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light emitting diodes. Electrical equipment and control products include lighting and power panels, switchgear, and circuit breakers. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private label brands. (165) Revenues Total revenues(a) Intersegment revenues(b) External revenues (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Energy Infrastructure $ 37,134 $ 38,571 $ 30,698 $ 141 $ 664 $ 351 $ 36,993 $ 37,907 $ 30,347 Technology Infrastructure 42,474 46,316 42,801 176 273 113 42,298 46,043 42,688 NBC Universal 15,436 16,969 15,416 71 89 35 15,365 16,880 15,381 Capital Finance 50,622 67,008 66,301 1,021 1,333 1,128 49,601 65,675 65,173 Consumer & Industrial 9,703 11,737 12,663 178 196 143 9,525 11,541 12,520 Corporate items and eliminations 1,414 1,914 4,609 (1,587) (2,555) (1,770) 3,001 4,469 6,379 Total $ 156,783 $ 182,515 $ 172,488 $ $ $ $ 156,783 $ 182,515 $ 172,488 (a) Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. (b) Sales from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices. Revenues from customers located in the United States were $72,499 million, $85,301 million and $86,247 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from customers located outside the United States were $84,284 million, $97,214 million and $86,241 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Property, plant and Assets(a)(b) equipment additions(c) Depreciation and amortization At December 31 For the years ended December 31 For the years ended December 31 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Energy Infrastructure $ 33,777 $ 33,836 $ 31,466 $ 945 $ 1,226 $ 1,054 $ 875 $ 838 $ 774 Technology Infrastructure 56,392 58,967 57,670 880 1,395 1,954 1,677 1,520 1,569 NBC Universal 32,282 33,781 33,089 282 131 306 345 354 357 Capital Finance 537,060 572,903 583,965 6,426 15,313 17,832 9,181 10,238 8,864 Consumer & Industrial 4,965 5,065 5,351 232 284 363 393 397 434 Corporate items and eliminations 117,342 93,217 84,142 (97) 281 247 237 221 310 Total $ 781,818 $ 797,769 $ 795,683 $ 8,668 $ 18,630 $ 21,756 $ 12,708 $ 13,568 $ 12,308 (a) Assets of discontinued operations are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods presented. (b) Total assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, Capital Finance and Consumer & Industrial operating segments at December 31, 2009, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $622 million, $638 million, $25,374 million and $402 million, respectively. Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed approximately $1 million, $263 million, $443 million, $1,059 million and $(40) million to segment pre tax income of Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer & Industrial operating segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total assets of $149,889 million, primarily financing receivables of $82,956 million; total liabilities of $126,005 million, primarily bank deposits of $69,573 million; revenues totaling $28,135 million; and net earnings totaling $4,539 million. (c) Additions to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal businesses purchased. (166) Interest and other financial charges Provision (benefit) for income taxes (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Capital Finance $ 17,874 $ 25,094 $ 22,611 $ (3,317) $ (1,914) $ 1,225 Corporate items and eliminations(a) 895 1,115 1,151 2,227 2,966 2,930 Total $ 18,769 $ 26,209 $ 23,762 $ (1,090) $ 1,052 $ 4,155 (a) Included amounts for Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer & Industrial for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest and other financial charges and income taxes. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based in the United States were $19,798 million, $27,667 million and $27,188 million at year end 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based outside the United States were $49,414 million, $50,863 million and $50,700 million at year end 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. NOTE 28. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter (In millions; per share amounts in dollars) 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Consolidated operations Earnings from continuing operations $ 2,935 $ 4,513 $ 2,895 $ 5,578 $ 2,459 $ 4,633 $ 3,145 $ 4,006 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (21) (47) (194) (322) 40 (165) (18) (145) Net earnings 2,914 4,466 2,701 5,256 2,499 4,468 3,127 3,861 Less net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 85 162 12 184 5 156 114 139 Net earnings attributable to the Company 2,829 4,304 2,689 5,072 2,494 4,312 3,013 3,722 Preferred stock dividends declared (75) (75) (75) (75) (75) Net earnings attributable to GE common shareowners $ 2,754 $ 4,304 $ 2,614 $ 5,072 $ 2,419 $ 4,312 $ 2,938 $ 3,647 Per share amounts earnings from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share $ 0.26 $ 0.43 $ 0.26 $ 0.54 $ 0.22 $ 0.45 $ 0.28 $ 0.36 Basic earnings per share 0.26 0.44 0.26 0.54 0.22 0.45 0.28 0.36 Per share amounts earnings (loss) from discontinued operations Diluted earnings per share (0.02) (0.03) (0.02) (0.01) Basic earnings per share (0.02) (0.03) (0.02) (0.01) Per share amounts net earnings Diluted earnings per share 0.26 0.43 0.25 0.51 0.23 0.43 0.28 0.35 Basic earnings per share 0.26 0.43 0.25 0.51 0.23 0.43 0.28 0.35 Selected data GE Sales of goods and services $ 24,022 $ 24,186 $ 26,012 $ 27,846 $ 25,125 $ 28,868 $ 28,298 $ 31,114 Gross profit from sales 6,013 6,280 7,232 7,302 6,562 6,930 7,886 8,229 GECS Total revenues 14,457 18,038 13,457 19,032 12,746 18,431 13,503 15,786 Earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company 979 2,456 367 2,774 133 2,010 111 534 For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods and services sold. Earnings per share amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of each quarters per share amount may not equal the total per share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters. (167) Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Not applicable. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) no change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, 
 
