Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Technology Infrastructure Technology Infrastructure (25.2%, 24.8% and 22.9% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of essential technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world, we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology infrastructure. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Aviation Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs. Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC. Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. (6) Table of Contents Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft. We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long term maintenance contracts. The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards. Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other. Healthcare Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates industry leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. On December 22, 2010, we acquired Clarient, Inc., a leading company in the molecular diagnostics sector. Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services. We compete with a variety of U.S. and non U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. (7) Table of Contents Transportation Transportation provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. NBC Universal NBC Universal (NBCU) (11.3%, 9.9% and 9.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. NBCU is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. NBCUs film company, Universal Pictures, produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment and stage plays worldwide in various media formats for theatrical, home entertainment, television and other distribution platforms. NBCU owns the theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, holds a 50% equity interest in a joint venture, which owns the Universal Studios Florida and Universals Islands of Adventure theme parks, and brands, designs and develops international theme parks under exclusive licenses. The cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. The cable/satellite television networks include USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, Universal HD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, the U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve more than 200 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2010, NBCU owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. NBCU has exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. (8) Table of Contents NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. The broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon NBCUs ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of programming to cable/satellite operators. NBCUs television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to NBCUs operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. NBCU continues to devote substantial resources to protect its intellectual property against unauthorized use. Prior to September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi S.A. (Vivendi) owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendis 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCUs outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with the transaction with Comcast Corporation (Comcast), we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCUs outstanding shares). On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash of $6.2 billion from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. GE Capital GE Capital (31.3%, 32.0% and 37.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2010, GE Capital provided approximately $90 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $78 billion of credit to approximately 52 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 29,000 new commercial customers and 46,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2010 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 302,000 commercial customers and 179,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. (9) Table of Contents Commercial Lending and Leasing CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. Historically, we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. GE Money Japan has been classified as discontinued operations. Also in 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico, which have been classified as discontinued operations. In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. In October 2010, we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. (10) Table of Contents Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. (11) Table of Contents GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first quarter of 2010); certain consolidated, liquidating securitization entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.8%, 5.4% and 5.6% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram&reg;, GE Profile, GE&reg;, Hotpoint&reg; and GE Caf&eacute;. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control, and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. Our remaining Security business was sold in the first quarter of 2010. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. These businesses are reported in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan, our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico and Plastics. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. NBC Universal NBC Universal (NBCU) (11.3%, 9.9% and 9.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. NBCU is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. NBCUs film company, Universal Pictures, produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment and stage plays worldwide in various media formats for theatrical, home entertainment, television and other distribution platforms. NBCU owns the theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, holds a 50% equity interest in a joint venture, which owns the Universal Studios Florida and Universals Islands of Adventure theme parks, and brands, designs and develops international theme parks under exclusive licenses. The cable/satellite television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world wide. The cable/satellite television networks include USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, Universal HD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, the U.S. Spanish language broadcast television network, serve more than 200 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2010, NBCU owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. NBCU has exclusive U.S. television rights to the 2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. (8) Table of Contents NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. The broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon NBCUs ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long term programming contracts, including event based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of programming to cable/satellite operators. NBCUs television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic sell through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to NBCUs operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming, increasing the risk of piracy. NBCU continues to devote substantial resources to protect its intellectual property against unauthorized use. Prior to September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi S.A. (Vivendi) owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendis 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCUs outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with the transaction with Comcast Corporation (Comcast), we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCUs outstanding shares). On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash of $6.2 billion from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. NBC Universals headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. GE Capital GE Capital (31.3%, 32.0% and 37.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2010, GE Capital provided approximately $90 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $78 billion of credit to approximately 52 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 29,000 new commercial customers and 46,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2010 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 302,000 commercial customers and 179,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. (9) Table of Contents Commercial Lending and Leasing CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. Historically, we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. GE Money Japan has been classified as discontinued operations. Also in 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico, which have been classified as discontinued operations. In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. In October 2010, we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. (10) Table of Contents Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. (11) Table of Contents GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first quarter of 2010); certain consolidated, liquidating securitization entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.8%, 5.4% and 5.6% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram&reg;, GE Profile, GE&reg;, Hotpoint&reg; and GE Caf&eacute;. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control, and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. Our remaining Security business was sold in the first quarter of 2010. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. These businesses are reported in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan, our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico and Plastics. For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Orders Backlog GEs total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2010 was $66.7 billion, a decrease of 1% from year end 2009, reflecting decreased demand at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.0 billion related to products, of which 59% was scheduled for delivery in 2011. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $20.6 billion at the end of 2010. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were approximately $108.7 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2010 and included our reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in 2010, $0.3 billion in 2009 and $0.2 billion in 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years. (13) Table of Contents As previously disclosed, in 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPAs final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $0.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. Employee Relations At year end 2010, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 287,000 persons, of whom approximately 133,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,200 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 105 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011, and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. While results of 2011 union negotiations cannot be predicted, our recent past negotiations have resulted in agreements that increased costs. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,500 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. (14) Table of Contents Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 4 % 4 % 3 % 5 % 6 % 4 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 3 3 2 4 4 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Technology Infrastructures Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Technology Infrastructures Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2010 and included our reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in 2010, $0.3 billion in 2009 and $0.2 billion in 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years. (13) Table of Contents As previously disclosed, in 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPAs final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $0.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. Employee Relations At year end 2010, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 287,000 persons, of whom approximately 133,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,200 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 105 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011, and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. While results of 2011 union negotiations cannot be predicted, our recent past negotiations have resulted in agreements that increased costs. Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,500 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. (14) Table of Contents Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 4 % 4 % 3 % 5 % 6 % 4 % Technology Infrastructure segment defense related sales 3 3 2 4 4 3 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operations Our consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services). In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered non GAAP financial measures under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section. We present Managements Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2008 through 2010, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations, Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company simply as revenues and earnings throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in our consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations unless otherwise indicated. Effective January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer & Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization, we created a new segment called Home & Business Solutions that includes the Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer & Industrial segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous Consumer & Industrial segment and the Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy businesses of our previous Enterprise Solutions business are now part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business of Enterprise Solutions was reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations until its sale in February 2010. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC). In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), is included in Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, is included in CLL. Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. The results of the Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation businesses are unaffected by this reorganization and we will begin reporting these as separate segments beginning with our quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the period ended March 31, 2011. Results for 2010 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010 and do not reflect the January 2011 reorganization. Beginning in 2011, we will supplement our GAAP net earnings and earnings per share (EPS) reporting by also reporting an operating earnings and EPS measure (non GAAP). Operating earnings and EPS will include service cost and plan amendment amortization for our principal pension plans as these costs represent expenses associated with employee benefits earned. Operating earnings and EPS will exclude non operating pension cost/income such as interest cost, expected return on plans assets and non cash amortization of actuarial gains and losses. We believe that this reporting will provide better transparency to the employee benefit costs of our principal pension plans and Company operating results. (27) Table of Contents Overview of Our Earnings from 2008 through 2010 Earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company increased 15% in 2010 after decreasing 39% in 2009, reflecting the stabilization of overall economic conditions during 2010, following the challenging conditions of the last two years and the effect on both our industrial and financial services businesses. We believe that we are seeing signs of stabilization in the global economy, including in financial services, as GECS earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company increased 138% in 2010 compared with a decrease of 83% in 2009. Net earnings attributable to the Company increased 6% in 2010 after decreasing 37% in 2009, as losses from discontinued operations in 2010 partially offset the 15% increase in earnings from continuing operations. We have a strong backlog entering 2011 and expect global economic conditions to continue to improve through 2012. Energy Infrastructure (25% and 33% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) revenues decreased 8% in 2010 and 6% in 2009 as the worldwide demand for new sources of power, such as wind and thermal, declined with the overall economic conditions. Segment profit increased 2% in 2010 and 9% in 2009 primarily on higher prices and lower material and other costs. We continue to invest in market leading technology and services at Energy and Oil & Gas. Technology Infrastructure (24% and 33% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) revenues and segment profit fell 2% and 7%, respectively, in 2010 and 7% and 9%, respectively, in 2009. We continue to invest in market leading technologies and services at Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Aviation revenues and earnings trended down over this period on lower equipment sales and services and the costs of investment in new product launches, coupled with the effects of the challenging global economic environment. Healthcare revenues and earnings improved in 2010 on higher equipment sales and services after trending down in 2009 due to generally weak global economic conditions and uncertainty in the healthcare markets. Transportation revenues and earnings declined 12% and 33%, respectively, in 2010, and 24% and 51%, respectively, in 2009 as the weakened economy has driven overall reductions in U.S. freight traffic and we updated our estimates of long term product service costs in our maintenance service agreements. NBC Universal (NBCU) (10% and 12% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company. NBCU revenues increased 9% in 2010 after decreasing 9% in 2009 and segment profit was flat in 2010 after decreasing 28% in 2009. The cable business continues to grow and become more profitable, the television business had mixed performance, and our parks and film businesses have improved as the U.S. economy has stabilized. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which consists of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporations cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments. In connection with the transaction, we received $6.2 billion in cash and a 49% interest in the newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC, which we will account for under the equity method. GE Capital (34% and 20% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) net earnings increased to $3.3 billion in 2010 due to stabilization in the overall economic environment after declining to $1.5 billion in 2009 from the effects of the challenging economic environment and credit markets. Over the last several years, we tightened underwriting standards, shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk management focus. This, along with recent increased stability in the financial markets, contributed to lower losses and a return to pre tax earnings and a significant increase in segment profit in 2010. We also reduced our ending net investment (ENI), excluding cash and equivalents from $526 billion at January 1, 2010 to $477 billion at December 31, 2010. The current credit cycle has begun to show signs of stabilization and we expect further signs of stabilization as we enter 2011. Our focus is to reposition General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) as a diversely funded and smaller, more focused finance company with strong positions in several mid market, corporate and consumer financing segments. (28) Table of Contents Home & Business Solutions (6% and 2% of consolidated three year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) revenues have increased 2% in 2010 after declining 17% in 2009. Home & Business Solutions continues to reposition its business by eliminating capacity in its incandescent lighting manufacturing sites and investing in energy efficient product manufacturing in locations such as Louisville, Kentucky and Bloomington, Indiana. Segment profit increased 24% in 2010 primarily as a result of the effects of productivity reflecting these cost reduction efforts and increased other income, partially offset by lower prices. Segment profit increased 1% in 2009 on higher prices and lower material costs. Overall, acquisitions contributed $0.3 billion, $2.9 billion and $7.4 billion to consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the effects of acquisition gains following our adoption of an amendment to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810, Consolidation. Our consolidated net earnings included approximately $0.1 billion, $0.5 billion and $0.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our ongoing results through lower revenues of $3.0 billion in 2010, lower revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009 and higher revenues of $0.1 billion in 2008. The effects of dispositions on net earnings were increases of $0.1 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.4 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Significant matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below. Discontinued Operations. Consistent with our goal of reducing GECC ENI and focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk, in December 2010, we sold our Central American bank and card business, BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC). In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. Discontinued operations also includes our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment finance business (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico. All of these businesses were previously reported in the GE Capital segment. We reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see Segment Operations Discontinued Operations in this Item and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (188) Table of Contents Energy Infrastructure Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services, including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long term maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. Energy offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. In addition, it provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Electrical equipment and control products include power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers. The Oil & Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems including blowout preventers, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national, international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection and integrity services, remote monitoring and diagnostic, and contractual service agreements. Technology Infrastructure Aviation products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Healthcare products include diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies. Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services include equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Transportation products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off highway vehicles, gearing technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power generation, railway signaling and office systems. Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Results for 2010 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010 and do not reflect the January 1, 2011 reorganization. NBC Universal Principal businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations, operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world, operation of theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. (189) Table of Contents Prior to September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendis 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCUs outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with the transaction with Comcast, we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCUs outstanding shares). On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBCU LLC. In connection with the transaction, we received cash of $6,197 million from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. GE Capital CLL products include loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. Consumer offers a range of financial products including private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending on a global basis. Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Energy Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy and water industries including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, product finance, and broad based commercial finance. GECAS provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors, including leases, and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. (190) Table of Contents Home & Business Solutions Products include major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light emitting diodes. Plant automation hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Home & Business Solutions. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private label brands. Revenues Total revenues(a) Intersegment revenues(b) External revenues (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Energy Infrastructure $ 37,514 $ 40,648 $ 43,046 $ 316 $ 633 $ 1,098 $ 37,198 $ 40,015 $ 41,948 Technology Infrastructure 37,860 38,517 41,605 250 304 372 37,610 38,213 41,233 NBC Universal 16,901 15,436 16,969 105 71 89 16,796 15,365 16,880 GE Capital 47,040 49,746 67,645 1,207 1,469 1,708 45,833 48,277 65,937 Home & Business Solutions 8,648 8,443 10,117 49 33 68 8,599 8,410 10,049 Corporate items and eliminations 2,248 2,488 2,199 (1,927 ) (2,510 ) (3,335 ) 4,175 4,998 5,534 Total $ 150,211 $ 155,278 $ 181,581 $ $ $ $ 150,211 $ 155,278 $ 181,581 (a) Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. (b) Sales from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices. Revenues from customers located in the United States were $70,506 million, $72,240 million and $85,012 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues from customers located outside the United States were $79,705 million, $83,038 million and $96,569 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (191) Table of Contents Assets(a)(b) Property, plant andequipment additions(c) Depreciation and amortization At December 31 For the years ended December 31 For the years ended December 31 (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Energy Infrastructure $ 38,606 $ 36,663 $ 36,973 $ 954 $ 1,012 $ 1,382 $ 911 $ 994 $ 973 Technology Infrastructure 51,474 50,245 51,863 789 812 1,247 1,643 1,496 1,343 NBC Universal 33,792 32,282 33,781 286 282 131 345 354 GE Capital 575,908 607,707 627,501 7,674 6,440 15,325 8,375 9,177 10,226 Home & Business Solutions 4,280 4,955 4,908 229 201 195 354 366 342 Corporate items and eliminations 47,156 50,049 42,815 (111) (79) 349 479 297 299 Total $ 751,216 $ 781,901 $ 797,841 $ 9,821 $ 8,668 $ 18,629 $ 11,762 $ 12,675 $ 13,537 (a) Assets of discontinued operations are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods presented. (b) Total assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, GE Capital and Home & Business Solutions operating segments at December 31, 2010, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $667 million, $856 million, $25,662 million and $430 million, respectively. Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed approximately $58 million, $40 million, $284 million, $2,035 million and $30 million to segment pre tax income of Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, GE Capital and Home & Business Solutions operating segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total assets of $198,571 million, primarily financing receivables of $97,561 million; total liabilities of $152,812 million, primarily bank deposits of $75,661 million; revenues totaling $15,659 million; and net earnings totaling $2,895 million. (c) Additions to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal businesses purchased. Interest and other financial charges Provision (benefit) for income taxes (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 GE Capital $ 14,924 $ 17,491 $ 24,570 $ (932) $ (3,812) $ (2,137) Corporate items and eliminations(a) 1,059 818 1,188 1,982 2,664 3,239 Total $ 15,983 $ 18,309 $ 25,758 $ 1,050 $ (1,148) $ 1,102 (a) Included amounts for Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Home & Business Solutions for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest and other financial charges and income taxes. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based in the United States were $17,596 million, $19,798 million and $27,667 million at year end 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based outside the United States were $48,618 million, $49,172 million and $50,861 million at year end 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 192 Table of Contents NOTE 29. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter (In millions; per share amounts in dollars) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Consolidated operations Earnings from continuing operations $ 2,370 $ 2,934 $ 3,340 $ 2,673 $ 3,289 $ 2,441 $ 4,159 $ 3,095 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (374) (20) (133) 29 (1,077) 53 605 20 Net earnings 1,996 2,914 3,207 2,702 2,212 2,494 4,764 3,115 Less net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (52) (85) (97) (12) (157) (1) (229) (102) Net earnings attributable to the Company 1,944 2,829 3,110 2,690 2,055 2,493 4,535 3,013 Preferred stock dividends declared (75) (75) (75) (75) (75) (75) (75) (75) Net earnings attributable to GE common shareowners $ 1,869 $ 2,754 $ 3,035 $ 2,615 $ 1,980 $ 2,418 $ 4,460 $ 2,938 Per share amounts earnings from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share $ 0.21 $ 0.26 $ 0.30 $ 0.24 $ 0.29 $ 0.22 $ 0.36 $ 0.27 Basic earnings per share 0.21 0.26 0.30 0.24 0.29 0.22 0.36 0.27 Per share amounts earnings (loss) from discontinued operations Diluted earnings per share (0.04) (0.01) (0.10) 0.06 Basic earnings per share (0.04) (0.01) (0.10) 0.06 Per share amounts net earnings Diluted earnings per share 0.17 0.26 0.28 0.25 0.18 0.23 0.42 0.28 Basic earnings per share 0.17 0.26 0.28 0.25 0.18 0.23 0.42 0.28 Selected data GE Sales of goods and services $ 23,509 $ 24,023 $ 24,403 $ 26,013 $ 23,593 $ 25,123 $ 28,715 $ 28,298 Gross profit from sales 6,146 6,013 7,294 7,234 6,974 6,560 8,278 7,886 GECS Total revenues 12,796 14,278 12,790 12,943 12,099 12,325 12,814 13,112 Earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company 523 978 767 144 804 120 1,036 73 For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods and services sold. Earnings per share amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of each quarters per share amount may not equal the total per share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters. Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Not applicable. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2010, and (ii) no change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2010, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, 
 
