Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Aviation Aviation (12.8%, 11.8% and 12.1% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of jet engines and related services with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. (6) Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs. Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC. Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2011, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft. We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long term maintenance contracts. The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards. Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Healthcare Healthcare (12.3%, 11.3% and 10.4% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of essential healthcare technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. (7) Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including existing and a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services. We compete with a variety of U.S. and non U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Transportation Transportation (3.3%, 2.3% and 2.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. (8) Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.7%, 5.8% and 5.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Capital GE Capital (31.0%, 31.0% and 31.7% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2011, GE Capital provided approximately $104 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $87 billion of credit to approximately 56 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 19,600 new commercial customers and 37,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2011 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 284,000 commercial customers and 191,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (9) Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. In December 2011, we announced that GE Capital Financial Inc., our industrial bank, is acquiring MetLifes U.S. retail deposit business, which is an established online bank with approximately $7.5 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow CLL to better serve its middle market commercial customers. The transaction is targeted to close in mid 2012 pending regulatory approval. In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. (10) In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. Following the sale, we hold a 2.25% equity ownership interest, which is classified as an available for sale security. In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. Also, in 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; and we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2009, we increased our ownership to a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (11) Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services invests in long lived, capital intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance. We also invest in early to later stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest, principal retirement plan costs and underabsorbed corporate overhead, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of our NBC Universal (NBCU) business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBCUniversal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Prior to this transaction, NBCU operated as a consolidated diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. Following the transaction, we deconsolidated NBCU and we account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN, and in the first quarter of 2010, we sold our other remaining Security business. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore and Australian Home Lending. (12) For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Healthcare Healthcare (12.3%, 11.3% and 10.4% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is one of the worlds leading providers of essential healthcare technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. (7) Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including existing and a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services. We compete with a variety of U.S. and non U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Transportation Transportation (3.3%, 2.3% and 2.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. (8) Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.7%, 5.8% and 5.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Capital GE Capital (31.0%, 31.0% and 31.7% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2011, GE Capital provided approximately $104 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $87 billion of credit to approximately 56 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 19,600 new commercial customers and 37,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2011 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 284,000 commercial customers and 191,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (9) Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. In December 2011, we announced that GE Capital Financial Inc., our industrial bank, is acquiring MetLifes U.S. retail deposit business, which is an established online bank with approximately $7.5 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow CLL to better serve its middle market commercial customers. The transaction is targeted to close in mid 2012 pending regulatory approval. In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. (10) In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. Following the sale, we hold a 2.25% equity ownership interest, which is classified as an available for sale security. In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. Also, in 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; and we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2009, we increased our ownership to a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (11) Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services invests in long lived, capital intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance. We also invest in early to later stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest, principal retirement plan costs and underabsorbed corporate overhead, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of our NBC Universal (NBCU) business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBCUniversal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Prior to this transaction, NBCU operated as a consolidated diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. Following the transaction, we deconsolidated NBCU and we account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN, and in the first quarter of 2010, we sold our other remaining Security business. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore and Australian Home Lending. (12) For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Transportation Transportation (3.3%, 2.3% and 2.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. Transportation manufactures high horsepower diesel electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications. (8) Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.7%, 5.8% and 5.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Capital GE Capital (31.0%, 31.0% and 31.7% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2011, GE Capital provided approximately $104 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $87 billion of credit to approximately 56 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 19,600 new commercial customers and 37,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2011 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 284,000 commercial customers and 191,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (9) Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. In December 2011, we announced that GE Capital Financial Inc., our industrial bank, is acquiring MetLifes U.S. retail deposit business, which is an established online bank with approximately $7.5 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow CLL to better serve its middle market commercial customers. The transaction is targeted to close in mid 2012 pending regulatory approval. In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. (10) In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. Following the sale, we hold a 2.25% equity ownership interest, which is classified as an available for sale security. In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. Also, in 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; and we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2009, we increased our ownership to a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (11) Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services invests in long lived, capital intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance. We also invest in early to later stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest, principal retirement plan costs and underabsorbed corporate overhead, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of our NBC Universal (NBCU) business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBCUniversal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Prior to this transaction, NBCU operated as a consolidated diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. Following the transaction, we deconsolidated NBCU and we account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN, and in the first quarter of 2010, we sold our other remaining Security business. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore and Australian Home Lending. (12) For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Home & Business Solutions Home & Business Solutions (5.7%, 5.8% and 5.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Appliances and Lighting We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram, GE Profile, GE, Hotpoint and GE Caf. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, light emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. Intelligent Platforms Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control and operator interfaces. We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. GE Capital GE Capital (31.0%, 31.0% and 31.7% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GEs industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market specific opportunities. During 2011, GE Capital provided approximately $104 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $87 billion of credit to approximately 56 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 19,600 new commercial customers and 37,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2011 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 284,000 commercial customers and 191,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S. (9) Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines. Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward. Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL) CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. In December 2011, we announced that GE Capital Financial Inc., our industrial bank, is acquiring MetLifes U.S. retail deposit business, which is an established online bank with approximately $7.5 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow CLL to better serve its middle market commercial customers. The transaction is targeted to close in mid 2012 pending regulatory approval. In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland. In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity. Consumer Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers needs. These products include, on a global basis, private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending. (10) In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. Following the sale, we hold a 2.25% equity ownership interest, which is classified as an available for sale security. In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011. Also, in 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; and we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid sized retailers and dealers. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business. In June 2009, we increased our ownership to a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation. Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumers capacity to repay debt. Real Estate Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating rate, and are secured by existing income producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax exempt bonds. We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write offs. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. (11) Energy Financial Services Energy Financial Services invests in long lived, capital intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad based commercial finance. We also invest in early to later stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing. GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capitals five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman. GE Corporate Items and Eliminations GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest, principal retirement plan costs and underabsorbed corporate overhead, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of our NBC Universal (NBCU) business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBCUniversal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Prior to this transaction, NBCU operated as a consolidated diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. Following the transaction, we deconsolidated NBCU and we account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method. During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN, and in the first quarter of 2010, we sold our other remaining Security business. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore and Australian Home Lending. (12) For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report. Orders and Backlog GE Infrastructure equipment orders increased 24% to $50.1 billion at December 31, 2011. Total GE Infrastructure backlog increased 14% to $200.2 billion at December 31, 2011, composed of equipment backlog of $52.7 billion and services backlog of $147.5 billion. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $4.6 billion, $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Aviation accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Healthcare also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in 2011, $0.2 billion in 2010 and $0.3 billion in 2009. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years. In 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decision setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the Hudson River dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA and increased our reserve by $0.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 to account for the probable and estimable costs of completing Phase 2. In 2011, we completed the first year of Phase 2 dredging and commenced work on planned upgrades to the Hudson River wastewater processing facility. Based on the results from 2011 dredging and our best professional engineering judgment, we believe that our current reserve continues to reflect our probable and estimable costs for the remainder of Phase 2 of the dredging project. (13) Employees and Employee Relations At year end 2011, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 301,000 persons, of whom approximately 131,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,800 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 108 different union local bargaining units. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four year agreements with most of our U.S. unions. These agreements modestly increase ongoing costs over the term of the contracts on an aggregate basis. However, the agreements also implement new features that focus on cost containment for health and pension plans. Beginning January 1, 2012, all production employees will participate in a new consumer directed health plan. In addition, production employees who commence service on or after that date will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement plan. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 3,400 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 3 % 3 % 4 % 4 % 5 % 5 % Aviation segment defense related sales 3 3 3 4 4 4 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828 0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. (14) Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report for further information. Research and Development GE funded research and development expenditures were $4.6 billion, $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Aviation accounts for the largest share of GEs research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructures Energy business and Healthcare also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE. Environmental Matters Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in 2011, $0.2 billion in 2010 and $0.3 billion in 2009. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years. In 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decision setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the Hudson River dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA and increased our reserve by $0.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 to account for the probable and estimable costs of completing Phase 2. In 2011, we completed the first year of Phase 2 dredging and commenced work on planned upgrades to the Hudson River wastewater processing facility. Based on the results from 2011 dredging and our best professional engineering judgment, we believe that our current reserve continues to reflect our probable and estimable costs for the remainder of Phase 2 of the dredging project. (13) Employees and Employee Relations At year end 2011, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 301,000 persons, of whom approximately 131,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of this Form 10 K Report. Approximately 15,800 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 108 different union local bargaining units. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four year agreements with most of our U.S. unions. These agreements modestly increase ongoing costs over the term of the contracts on an aggregate basis. However, the agreements also implement new features that focus on cost containment for health and pension plans. Beginning January 1, 2012, all production employees will participate in a new consumer directed health plan. In addition, production employees who commence service on or after that date will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement plan. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 3,400 employees. Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Form 10 K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant. Other Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow. % of Consolidated Revenues % of GE Revenues 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies 3 % 3 % 4 % 4 % 5 % 5 % Aviation segment defense related sales 3 3 3 4 4 4 GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. The Companys Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828 0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. (14) Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements, as discussed in Item 1. Business. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K Report, a large portion of our borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and long term debt. We continue to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for term maturities for 2012 and beyond and to fund our operations without incurring additional U.S. tax. In addition, we rely on the availability of the commercial paper markets to refinance maturing commercial paper debt throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, GE Capital continues to expand its reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank deposits, securitizations and other asset based funding. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in increasing the diversification of our funding sources or that the short and long term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect our overall profitability. Factors that may cause an increase in our funding costs include: a decreased reliance on short term funding, such as commercial paper, in favor of longer term funding arrangements; decreased capacity and increased competition among debt issuers; and increased competition for deposits in our affiliate banks markets. If GE Capitals cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely affect its competitive position and result in lower lending margins, earnings and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowners equity and invested capital. If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, they may adversely affect the business and results of operations of GE Capital as well as the soundness of financial institutions and governments we deal with. If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. In addition, deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to increase allowances for loan losses, impairments or write offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including sovereign governments, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE Capitals credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (188) Energy Infrastructure Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services, including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long term maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. In addition, it provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Electrical equipment and control products include power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers. The GE Oil & Gas business sells advanced technology equipment and services for all segments of the offshore and onshore oil and gas industry, from subsea, drilling and production, LNG, pipelines and storage to industrial power generation, refining and petrochemicals. We also provide pipeline integrity solutions, sensor based measurement, inspection, asset condition monitoring, controls, and radiation measurement solutions. Oil & Gas also offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Aviation Aviation products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Healthcare Healthcare products include diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies. Healthcare manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services include equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market. Transportation Transportation products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off highway vehicles, drill motors, marine and stationary power generation, railway signaling and office systems. Home & Business Solutions Products include major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light emitting diodes. Plant automation hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Home & Business Solutions. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and private label brands. (189) GE Capital CLL has particular mid market expertise, and primarily offers collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. Consumer offers a full range of financial products including private label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending on a global basis. Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Energy Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy industry including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, product finance, and broad based commercial finance. GECAS provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors, including leases, and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. Revenues Total revenues(a) Intersegment revenues(b) External revenues (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Energy Infrastructure $ 43,694 $ 37,514 $ 40,648 $ 325 $ 316 $ 633 $ 43,369 $ 37,198 $ 40,015 Aviation 18,859 17,619 18,728 417 155 234 18,442 17,464 18,494 Healthcare 18,083 16,897 16,015 65 30 40 18,018 16,867 15,975 Transportation 4,885 3,370 3,827 33 77 72 4,852 3,293 3,755 Home & Business Solutions 8,465 8,648 8,443 58 49 33 8,407 8,599 8,410 Total industrial 93,986 84,048 87,661 898 627 1,012 93,088 83,421 86,649 GE Capital 45,730 46,422 48,906 1,072 1,208 1,469 44,658 45,214 47,437 Corporate items and eliminations(c) 7,584 19,123 17,871 (1,970) (1,835) (2,481) 9,554 20,958 20,352 Total $ 147,300 $ 149,593 $ 154,438 $ $ $ $ 147,300 $ 149,593 $ 154,438 (a) Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income. (b) Sales from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices. (c) Includes the results of NBCU (our formerly consolidated subsidiary) and our current equity method investment in NBCUniversal LLC. Revenues from customers located in the United States were $69,820 million, $75,104 million and $75,782 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues from customers located outside the United States were $77,480 million, $74,489 million and $78,656 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (190) Property, plant and Assets(a)(b) equipment additions(c) Depreciation and amortization At December 31 For the years ended December 31 For the years ended December 31 (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Energy Infrastructure $ 54,389 $ 38,606 $ 36,663 $ 2,078 $ 954 $ 1,012 $ 1,235 $ 911 $ 994 Aviation 23,567 21,175 20,377 699 471 442 569 565 539 Healthcare 27,981 27,784 27,163 378 249 302 869 994 876 Transportation 2,633 2,515 2,714 193 69 68 88 85 82 Home & Business Solutions 4,645 4,280 4,955 278 229 201 287 354 366 GE Capital 552,514 565,337 597,877 9,882 7,674 6,442 7,636 8,367 9,175 Corporate items and eliminations 51,513 88,096 92,200 56 175 203 233 257 668 Total $ 717,242 $ 747,793 $ 781,949 $ 13,564 $ 9,821 $ 8,670 $ 10,917 $ 11,533 $ 12,700 (a) Assets of discontinued operations, NBCU (our formerly consolidated subsidiary) and our current equity method investment in NBCUniversal LLC are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods presented. (b) Total assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Home & Business Solutions and GE Capital operating segments at December 31, 2011, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $907 million, $420 million, $532 million, $11 million, $439 million and $23,589 million, respectively. Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed approximately $46 million, $70 million, $(38) million, $1 million, $23 million and $2,337 million to segment pre tax income of Energy Infrastructure, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Home & Business Solutions and GE Capital operating segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total assets of $161,913 million, primarily financing receivables of $57,617 million; total liabilities of $102,066 million, primarily debt of $56,596 million; revenues totaling $42,323 million; and net earnings totaling $3,963 million. (c) Additions to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal businesses purchased. Interest and other financial charges Provision (benefit) for income taxes (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 GE Capital $ 13,845 $ 14,494 $ 16,878 $ 984 $ (949) $ (3,807) Corporate items and eliminations(a) 700 1,059 819 4,748 1,982 2,665 Total $ 14,545 $ 15,553 $ 17,697 $ 5,732 $ 1,033 $ (1,142) (a) Included amounts for Energy Infrastructure, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Home & Business Solutions and NBCU (prior to its deconsolidation in 2011), for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest and other financial charges and income taxes. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based in the United States were $19,672 million, $17,596 million and $19,798 million at year end 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Property, plant and equipment net associated with operations based outside the United States were $46,067 million, $48,616 million and $49,169 million at year end 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (191) NOTE 29. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter (In millions; per share amounts in dollars) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Consolidated operations Earnings from continuing operations $ 3,471 $ 2,351 $ 3,621 $ 3,306 $ 3,264 $ 3,264 $ 4,010 $ 4,131 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations 56 (353) 217 (101) 1 (1,052) (197) 633 Net earnings 3,527 1,998 3,838 3,205 3,265 2,212 3,813 4,764 Less net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (94) (53) (74) (96) (41) (157) (83) (229) Net earnings attributable to the Company 3,433 1,945 3,764 3,109 3,224 2,055 3,730 4,535 Preferred stock dividends declared (75) (75) (75) (75) (881) (75) (75) Net earnings attributable to GE common shareowners $ 3,358 $ 1,870 $ 3,689 $ 3,034 $ 2,343 $ 1,980 $ 3,730 $ 4,460 Per share amounts earnings from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share $ 0.31 $ 0.21 $ 0.33 $ 0.29 $ 0.22 $ 0.28 $ 0.37 $ 0.36 Basic earnings per share 0.31 0.21 0.33 0.29 0.22 0.28 0.37 0.36 Per share amounts earnings (loss) from discontinued operations Diluted earnings per share 0.01 (0.03) 0.02 (0.01) (0.10) (0.02) 0.06 Basic earnings per share 0.01 (0.03) 0.02 (0.01) (0.10) (0.02) 0.06 Per share amounts net earnings Diluted earnings per share 0.32 0.17 0.35 0.28 0.22 0.18 0.35 0.42 Basic earnings per share 0.32 0.17 0.35 0.28 0.22 0.18 0.35 0.42 Selected data GE Sales of goods and services $ 22,102 $ 23,509 $ 22,961 $ 24,403 $ 23,230 $ 23,593 $ 26,743 $ 28,715 Gross profit from sales 5,290 6,146 5,404 7,295 6,520 6,973 9,018 8,278 GECS Total revenues 13,041 12,633 12,443 12,632 12,018 11,954 11,579 12,662 Earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company 1,768 502 1,593 734 1,453 780 1,618 1,007 For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods and services sold. Earnings per share amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of each quarters per share amount may not equal the total per share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters. Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Not applicable. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011, and (ii) no change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, 
 
