FILE:MA/MA-8K-20061101081431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 1, 2006, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release, the Company discloses the following financial measures that do not conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"):
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the attached press release. While MasterCard's management believes that this non-GAAP financial information is useful in evaluating MasterCard's operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
On November 1, 2006, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter 2006 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2006. The company reported net income of $193 million, or $1.42 per share. Net revenues for the quarter were $902 million, a 13.9% increase versus the same period in 2005. Currency fluctuations (driven by the movement of the euro relative to the US dollar) contributed approximately 1% of the increase in revenues for the quarter.
Purchase, NY, November 1, 2006
Fueling the higher revenue in the third quarter was growth in MasterCard's gross dollar volume (GDV), which increased 15.0%, on a local currency basis, to $502 billion; an 18.9% increase in the number of transactions processed; and a restructuring of cross-border transaction fees which was implemented in April 2006. Worldwide purchase volume rose 17.2%, on a local currency basis, during the quarter to $365 billion driven by increased cardholder spending on a growing number of MasterCard cards. As of September 30, 2006, the company's customers had issued 818 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 12.6% percent over the same period in 2005.
"These strong results underscore our success in displacing paper-based forms of payment in all corners of the globe in the face of a highly competitive payments market," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "This marks the twelfth consecutive quarter of double-digit purchase volume growth and the tenth consecutive quarter of double-digit GDV growth. Over our forty year history, we have invested heavily in our global brand and payments network. We believe that merchants, consumers, corporations and governments have recognized the convenient and secure electronic payment solutions which this investment has enabled.
"With our unified global organization and our unique structure as a franchisor, processor and advisor, we are focusing our efforts full time on delivering value-added products and services that enhance the profitability of our customers' businesses, and provide innovative programs that meet and exceed their cardholders' and merchants' needs," Selander said. "At the same time, we recognize that results are best delivered locally, and our structure allows us to develop solutions that work for our customers wherever, and however, they do business."
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
Total operating expenses decreased 2.6% to $627 million during the quarter compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding the year-ago impact of litigation settlements and an adjustment to reflect an accounting methodology change for cash-based executive incentive plans, operating expenses increased 8.8%. This was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs related to the hiring of additional staff to support the company's customer-focused strategy; a severance expense resulting from an update in plan estimates; and higher professional fees related to legal costs to defend outstanding litigation. As expected, advertising and market development expenses decreased 4.6% to $209 million versus the year-ago period due to higher spending for the 2006 FIFA World Cup earlier in the year. Currency fluctuations contributed approximately 1% of the increase in expenses for the quarter. Total operating expenses, excluding special items, is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
Total other income was $17 million in the third quarter 2006 versus $16 million in the third quarter of 2005. The increase was driven primarily by interest income from higher cash balances related to proceeds received from the company's May 2006 initial public offering. This increase was offset by a gain the company recorded in 2005 from the settlement of a contractual dispute.
Chris A. McWilton, MasterCard's chief financial officer, noted that "In our first full quarter as a publicly listed company, MasterCard delivered strong revenue and earnings growth while further improving operating margins. The third-quarter results continue to demonstrate the strength of our business model and the momentum within the overall payments industry. These results are particularly notable when measured against last year's strong third-quarter performance."
Year-to-Date 2006 Results
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, MasterCard reported net income of $9 million, or $0.07 per share. Excluding the impact of special items, the company reported net income of $420 million, or $3.11 per share.
Special items, each of which occurred in the second quarter of 2006, included:
 
 
 
The company's net income and earnings per share, as well as total operating expenses discussed below, each of which exclude special items, are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
Net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 were $2.5 billion, an 11.9% increase versus the same period in 2005. Currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on revenues during this period.
Total operating expenses increased 33.2% to $2.3 billion for the nine-month period compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding the impact of the charitable contribution to the MasterCard Foundation, litigation settlements, and the incentive plan accounting methodology change mentioned above, total operating expenses increased 13.4% due to increased personnel costs, professional fees and sponsorship costs related to the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on operating expenses during this period.
Total other income was $41 million for the nine-month period versus $4 million for the same period in 2005. This change was driven by a $45 million increase in investment income, including the $7 million special item earned on IPO proceeds. Interest expense also decreased by $8 million due to a refund of interest assessed in connection with an audit of the company's federal income tax return and a reduction of interest reserve requirements related to the company's tax reserves. In addition, $3 million was due to lower interest accretion relating to the U.S. merchant lawsuit settlement.
MasterCard's effective tax rate of 95.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 includes the impact of a non-deductible, charitable stock contribution to the MasterCard Foundation. Excluding this impact, the company's tax rate would have been 34.6% vs. 35.5% for the same period in 2005. The company's effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the share donation, is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
Third Quarter Results Conference Call Details
On Wednesday, November 1, the company will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter financial results at 9:00 a.m. EST.
The dial-in information for this call is 866-314-9013 (within the US) and 617-213-8053 (outside the US) and the passcode is 60238634. A replay of the call will be available for one week following the meeting. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the US) and 617-801-6888 (outside the US) and using passcode 52185218.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes close to 14 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to .
www.mastercard.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that it has filed with the SEC during 2006, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Media Relations: Sharon Gamsin, sgamsin@mastercard.com, 914-249-5622
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
Footnote
Set forth above is information regarding the performance results for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 for the payment programs of MasterCard International Incorporated and MasterCard Europe sprl (collectively, "MasterCard"), the principal operating subsidiaries of MasterCard Incorporated.
The table sets forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus -branded cards, Mondex transactions and other branded transactions are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made (including PIN point-of-sale) with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a Personal Identification Number (PIN).
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. However, MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in GDV, purchase volume and cash volume solely on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members that is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts, cards and acceptance locations columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. Certain information with respect to acceptance locations is provided by third parties and has not been independently verified by MasterCard. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's members subsequent to the date of its release.
A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among members and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances.
The table includes information with respect to MasterCard-branded transactions that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues, including PIN point-of-sale volumes for MasterCard-branded debit programs in the U.S. region and credit programs in the Asia/Pacific region.
Performance information for prior periods may be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 10
Reconciliation to Net Income, Earnings Per Share and Total Operating Expenses
 
 
NM = not meaningful
Reconciliation to Effective Tax Rate
 
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 1, 2006.



