FILE:MA/MA-8K-20060725201124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 20, 2006, MasterCard Incorporated and its subsidiaries, MasterCard International Incorporated and MasterCard International LLC (collectively, "MasterCard"), along with other defendants in litigations relating to prices that cardholders of Visa- and MasterCard-branded credit and debit/ATM cards, and Diners Club cards, have been charged to make transactions denominated in a foreign currency or with a foreign merchant, entered into a settlement agreement and other related agreements (the "Settlement Agreement") with the plaintiffs in the consolidated federal class action lawsuit titled, . As part of that settlement, MasterCard International Incorporated, along with other defendants, also entered into an agreement settling a related California state court action titled . (the "Schwartz Matter").
In re Foreign Currency Conversion Fee Antitrust Litigation (MDL 1409)
Schwartz v. Visa Int'l Corp., et al
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, MasterCard has agreed to pay $72.48 million, which constitutes its share of defendants' $336 million settlement fund that will be used to pay monetary claims by eligible cardholders, the costs of administering the settlement and notice to cardholders, as well as any court-approved fees and expenses to attorneys for the class and awards to the class representatives. The Settlement Agreement also includes provisions relating to disclosures on billing statements and other documents. MasterCard also agreed to settle the Schwartz Matter for $13.44 million, which is expected to be paid in 2007.
The Settlement Agreement is subject to the approval of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. If the Settlement Agreement is approved, the claims in these currency conversion lawsuits and other related lawsuits will be extinguished. A more complete description of the Settlement Agreement is contained in the joint press release of the parties attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, PA  July 25, 2006A nationwide settlement agreement has been reached in a consolidated federal class action lawsuit about use of certain payment cards for foreign transactions, . The settlement agreement is subject to Court approval. The parties will submit the settlement agreement to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for preliminary approval.
In re Foreign Currency Conversion Fee Antitrust Litigation (MDL 1409)
The lawsuit concerns the prices that cardholders of Visa- and MasterCard-branded credit and debit/ATM cards, and Diners Club cards, have been charged to make transactions denominated in a foreign currency or with a foreign merchant. The plaintiffs claimed that the defendants violated federal and state antitrust laws, disclosure laws, and other legal requirements. The defendants deny any wrongdoing. The Court has not made any ruling on the merits of the case. Settlement was reached following years of litigation, after extensive negotiations, and with the assistance of a mediator.
Under the settlement, defendants will pay $336 million to create a settlement fund to pay monetary claims by eligible cardholders, the costs of administering the settlement and notice to cardholders, and any Court-approved fees and expenses to attorneys for the class and awards to the class representatives. The settlement also includes provisions relating to disclosures on billing statements and other documents. Implementation of the claims process will involve a third party administrator.
Defendants in the case include Visa, MasterCard, Bank of America, Bank One/First USA, Chase, Citibank, Diners Club, HSBC/Household, MBNA and Washington Mutual/Providian. Card accounts covered by the settlement include brands such as Visa, Interlink, Plus, MasterCard, Cirrus, and Maestro.
The settlement documents also include agreements to settle certain related lawsuits, including , No. 822404-4 (Alameda Cty., CA). If this settlement is approved, claims in those and other related lawsuits will be extinguished.
Schwartz v. Visa
Details of the settlement agreement will be released after submission to the Court. If the Court gives preliminary approval to the settlement, additional information will be available by calling 1-800-945-9890, or by visiting .
www.ccfsettlement.com
For further information, contact counsel for plaintiffs:
Merrill Davidoff
(215) 875-3000
Patrick Coughlin
(619) 231-1058


