FILE:MA/MA-8K-20060802081457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2006, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2006.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release, the Company discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the attached press release. While MasterCard's management believes that this non-GAAP financial information is useful in evaluating MasterCard's operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
On August 2, 2006, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter 2006 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced performance for the second quarter of 2006. The company reported net income of $101 million, or $0.74 per share, excluding special items, and a net loss of $310 million, or $2.30 per share, including special items.
Purchase, NY, August 2, 2006
Net revenue for the quarter was $846 million, a 9.7% increase versus the same period in 2005. Currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on revenue growth for the quarter.
Fueling the higher revenue in the second quarter was growth in MasterCard's gross dollar volume (GDV), which increased 16.4%, on a local currency basis, to $485 billion; a 17.7% increase in the number of transactions processed; and a restructuring of cross-border transaction fees which was implemented in April 2006. Worldwide purchase volume rose 17.5%, on a local currency basis, during the quarter to $351 billion driven by increased cardholder spending on a growing number of MasterCard cards. As expected, significant rebates and incentives in the quarter, which included a large debit portfolio conversion from a competitive brand, partially offset gross revenue growth. As of June 30, 2006, the company's customer banks had issued 796 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 11.2% percent over the same period in 2005.
Special items for the quarter included:
 
 
 
The company's net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
 
"Our solid operational performance for the quarter demonstrates that through our strengths as a franchisor, processor and advisor, we are successfully delivering on our commitment to bring our customers innovative products and value-added services to help them enhance the profitability of their payments businesses," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer.
"Our customers around the world are increasingly recognizing MasterCard as their brand of choice because of the strength of our unified global organization, advanced transaction processing network, powerful brand and our ability to provide them with unique payment solutions," he said. "This quarter's strong performance in emerging markets such as our Latin America and South Asia/Middle East Africa regions illustrates our ability to displace paper-based forms of payment by bringing the benefits of electronic payments to every corner of the world."
Total operating expenses increased 93.4%, to $1.1 billion, during the quarter compared to the same period in 2005. This increase was primarily driven by the contributions to the MasterCard Foundation, an increase in advertising and market development expenses related to the sponsorship of the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and an increase in personnel expenses to support the company's strategic initiatives. Currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on expense growth for the quarter.
Total other income/(expense) was $13 million in the second quarter 2006 versus ($5) million in last year's second quarter. The increase was driven by interest income from higher cash balances related to proceeds received from the IPO, as well as increases in interest rates and dividends received.
MasterCard's effective tax rate was significantly impacted by the share donation to the MasterCard Foundation. Excluding the impact of the share donation, the effective tax rate would have been 33.6% and 34.0%, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, down from the comparable periods in 2005. The rates in 2006 were lower than 2005 primarily due to favorable tax audit developments and the tax benefit related to qualified domestic production activities as allowed under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The company's effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the share donation, is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
Commenting on the company's financial performance, Chris A. McWilton, MasterCard's chief financial officer, noted that "During the second quarter, MasterCard continued to deliver solid revenue growth and good operating margins reflecting our globally competitive business model. Our capital position remains strong with $2.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities."
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
 
Year-to-Date 2006 Results
For the six months ended June 30, 2006, MasterCard reported net income of $227 million, or $1.68 per share, excluding the impact of the special items described above. Including the impact of the special items, the company reported a net loss of $184 million, or $1.36 per share.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2006 was $1.6 billion, a 10.8% increase versus the same period in 2005. Currency fluctuations negatively impacted this growth by approximately 1%.
Total operating expenses increased 54.3%, to $1.7 billion, for the six-month period compared to the same period in 2005. Currency fluctuations reduced this growth by approximately 1% in the year-to-date period.
Total other income/(expense) was $24 million for the six-month period versus ($12) million for the same period in 2005. This change was driven by a $26 million increase in investment income, including the $7 million special item earned on IPO proceeds. Interest expense also decreased by $8 million due to a refund of interest assessed in connection with an audit of the company's federal income tax return and a reduction of interest reserve requirements related to the company's tax reserves.
Second Quarter Results Conference Call Details
On Wednesday, August 2, the company will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results beginning at 9:00 a.m. EDT.
The dial-in information for this call is 800-299-7098 (within the US) and 617-801-9715 (outside the US) and the passcode is 64899002. A replay of the call will be available through August 9. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the US) and 617-801-6888 (outside the US) and using passcode 65688882.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
 
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes close to 14 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to www.mastercard.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that it has filed with the SEC during 2006, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Media Relations: Sharon Gamsin, sgamsin@mastercard.com, 914-249-5622
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
 
Note that columns in the table above may not add due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
Footnote
Set forth above is information regarding the performance results for the three month period ended June 30, 2006 for the payment programs of MasterCard International Incorporated and MasterCard Europe sprl (collectively, "MasterCard"), the principal operating subsidiaries of MasterCard Incorporated.
The table sets forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus -branded cards, Mondex transactions and other branded transactions are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made (including PIN point-of-sale) with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a Personal Identification Number (PIN).
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. However, MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in GDV, purchase volume and cash volume solely on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members that is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts, cards and acceptance locations columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. Certain information with respect to acceptance locations is provided by third parties and has not been independently verified by MasterCard. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's members subsequent to the date of its release.
Volumes for the period indicated in the table above for MasterCard-branded debit programs in the U.S. region and credit programs in the Asia/Pacific region are higher due to expanded data collection of PIN point-of-sale volumes.
A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among members and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances.
The table includes information with respect to MasterCard-branded transactions that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
Reconciliation to Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation to Effective Tax Rate
 
 
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2006.



