FILE:MA/MA-8K-20071109161717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01    OTHER EVENTS
MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") announced today that Noah J. Hanft, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and Michael W. Michl, Chief Administrative Officer (collectively, the "Executives"), entered into pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a limited amount of the Company's shares for personal financial management purposes, both designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Company's insider trading policies regarding stock transactions (collectively, the "10b5-1 Plans").
The plan entered into by Mr. Michl allows for the sale of a maximum of: (i) approximately 16,572 shares of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the "Class A common stock"), associated with restricted stock unit awards and (ii) 3,269 shares of Class A common stock underlying stock option awards. The plan entered into by Mr. Hanft allows for the sale of a maximum of approximately 5,673 shares of Class A common stock associated with restricted stock unit awards. Sales of shares by both Executives pursuant to the 10b5-1 Plans are expected to occur over a five-month period and provide for sales of specified share amounts at specified market prices, subject to specified limitations. Sales pursuant to the 10b5-1 Plans are expected to begin as early as January 7, 2008 and will terminate no later than May 13, 2008, unless terminated sooner in accordance with the 10b5-1 Plans' terms.
Both Executives continue to be subject to the Company's executive stock ownership guidelines until reaching the age of 62, whereby the Executives are encouraged to hold at least four times their base salary in stock. For purposes of the stock ownership guidelines, shares of Class A common stock held directly or indirectly are included; however, not-yet-vested restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance share units and unexercised stock options held by an executive are excluded.
Transactions made under the 10b5-1 Plans will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to report on specific Rule 10b5-1 pre-planned stock trading plans of Company officers, nor to report modifications or terminations of the aforementioned 10b5-1 Plans or the plan of any other individual.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


