FILE:MA/MA-8K-20070815085158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") announced today that Robert Selander, President and Chief Executive Officer, W. Roy Dunbar, President, Global Technology and Operations, Noah Hanft, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Chris A. McWilton, Chief Financial Officer, Michael Michl, Chief Administrative Officer, and Tara Maguire, Controller (collectively, the "Executives"), entered into pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a limited amount of the Company's shares for personal financial management purposes, all designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Company's insider trading policies regarding stock transactions (collectively, the "10b5-1 Plans").
In the aggregate, the plans entered into by the Executives allow for the sale of a maximum of: (i) 40,500 shares of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the "Class A common stock"), purchased by the Executives in the Company's directed share program in connection with its initial public offering in May 2006, (ii) approximately 138,413 shares of Class A common stock associated with restricted stock unit awards and (iii) 51,260 shares of Class A common stock underlying stock option awards. Sales of shares by the Executives pursuant to the 10b5-1 Plans are expected to occur over a two-year period and provide for sales of specified share amounts at specified market prices, subject to specified limitations. Sales pursuant to the 10b5-1 Plans are expected to begin as early as October 12, 2007 and will terminate no later than August 13, 2009, unless terminated sooner in accordance with the 10b5-1 Plans' terms.
The Executives continue to be subject to the Company's executive stock ownership guidelines until reaching the age of 62, whereby Mr. Selander is encouraged to hold at least six times his base salary in stock and Messrs. Dunbar, Hanft, McWilton and Michl are encouraged to hold at least four times their base salary in stock. For purposes of the stock ownership guidelines, shares of Class A common stock held directly or indirectly are included; however, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance share units and unexercised stock options held by an executive are excluded.
Transactions made under the 10b5-1 Plans will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to report on specific Rule 10b5-1 pre-planned stock trading plans of Company officers, nor to report modifications or terminations of the aforementioned 10b5-1 Plans or the plan of any other individual.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


