FILE:MA/MA-8K-20070801081133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 1, 2007, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On August 1, 2007, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter ended June 30, 2007 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for second-quarter 2007. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $195 million, or $1.43 per share on a diluted basis, excluding special items, and net income of $252 million, or $1.85 per share on a diluted basis, including special items. The company's total operating expenses, total other income, effective tax rate, net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
Purchase, NY, August 1, 2007
Net revenues for the quarter were $997 million, a 17.8% increase versus the same period in 2006. Currency fluctuation (driven by the movement of the euro relative to the US dollar) contributed approximately 2.0% of the increase in revenues for the quarter.
Fueling the higher revenue in the second quarter versus the same period in 2006 was growth in MasterCard's gross dollar volume (GDV), which increased 13.3%, on a local currency basis, to $555 billion; a 15.2% increase in the number of transactions processed to 4.6 billion; and, an increase in cross-border transaction volumes of 17.3%. Worldwide purchase volume rose 14.8%, on a local currency basis, during the quarter to $414 billion, driven by increased cardholder spending on a growing number of MasterCard cards. As of June 30, 2007, the company's customers had issued 855 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 10.7% percent over the cards issued at June 30, 2006.
"We are very pleased with our second-quarter financial results, which reflect strong growth across all regions and represent the highest quarterly net revenue in MasterCard's history," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "This also marked our 13
th
consecutive quarter of double-digit GDV growth.
"Our evolution over several years to a more rigorous commercial environment as well as our investment in people and technology have helped us achieve success for our customers and for our shareholders, and we remain absolutely committed to both over the years ahead," added Selander.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
Special items for the second quarter of 2007 included:
 
 
For the second quarter of 2006, special items included:
 
 
 
Total operating expenses increased 3.2%, to $725 million in the second quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, excluding special items for both periods mentioned above. This increase was primarily driven by higher personnel costs related to the planned hiring of additional staff and contractors to support the company's customers, an increase in professional fees related to external costs to advance our key strategic initiatives and legal costs to defend outstanding litigation. Offsetting this increase was a 12.6% decrease in advertising and market development expenses reflecting significant World Cup sponsorship activity in the second quarter of 2006, as well as a planned shift in 2007 spending to later quarters this year. On a GAAP basis, which includes special items, operating expenses decreased 35.0%, to $728 million. Currency fluctuation negatively impacted the decrease in total operating expenses by approximately 0.7% for the quarter.
Total other income was $117 million in the second quarter 2007 versus $13 million in the second quarter of 2006, including special items in both periods. The increase was driven by a $92 million increase in other income, primarily related to a settlement received under an agreement to discontinue the company's sponsorship of the 2010 and 2014 World Cup soccer events.
MasterCard's GAAP effective tax rate was 34.7% in the three months ended June 30, 2007, versus the non-GAAP rate of 33.6% in the comparable period in 2006. MasterCard's GAAP effective tax rate in 2006 was significantly impacted by the share donation to the MasterCard Foundation. The year-over-year difference was due to an increase in state income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions as required under the recently adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
Year-to-Date 2007 Results
For the six months ended June 30, 2007, MasterCard reported net income of $410 million, or $3.00 per share, on a diluted basis, excluding the impact of special items. On a GAAP basis, which includes the impact of special items, the company reported net income of $467 million, or $3.42 per share on a diluted basis.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2007 was $1.9 billion, a 20.6% increase versus the same period in 2006. In addition to growth in GDV, processed transactions and cross-border transaction volumes, this increase was driven by a restructuring of pricing, primarily cross-border transaction pricing implemented in April 2006, which contributed approximately 2.0% of the revenue growth in the year-to-date period. Currency fluctuation contributed approximately 2.3% of the increase in revenues in the year-to-date period.
Total operating expenses increased 5.4%, to $1.3 billion, for the six-month period compared to the same period in 2006, excluding special items for both periods. Including special items, operating expenses decreased 20.7%, to $1.3 billion. Currency fluctuation negatively impacted the decrease in operating expenses by approximately 1.0% in the year-to-date period.
Total other income was $139 million for the six-month period versus $23 million for the same period in 2006, including special items in both periods. The increase was driven by a $92 million increase in other income, primarily related to a settlement received under an agreement to discontinue the company's sponsorship of the 2010 and 2014 World Cup soccer events. Additionally, investment income increased $23 million due to higher cash and short-term investment balances primarily related to the proceeds received from the company's IPO, increases in interest rates and cash generated by the company's business.
MasterCard's GAAP effective tax rate was 35.3% in the six months ended June 30, 2007, versus the non-GAAP rate of 34.0% in the comparable period in 2006. MasterCard's GAAP effective tax rate in 2006 was significantly impacted by the share donation to the MasterCard Foundation. The year-over-year difference was due to an increase in state income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions as required under the recently adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
Second-Quarter 2007 Financial Results Conference Call Details
At 9:00 a.m. EDT today, the company will host a conference call to discuss its second-quarter financial results.
The dial-in information for this call is 866-271-0675 (within the US) and 617-213-8892 (outside the US) and the passcode is 42269597. A replay of the call will be available for one week following the meeting. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the US) and 617-801-6888 (outside the US) and using passcode 26628850.
The live call and replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes over 16 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to www.mastercard.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2007, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, chris_monteiro@mastercard.com, 914-249-5826
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
Note that columns in the tables above may not add due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 10
Footnote
The tables set forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional and global basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus -branded cards, Mondex transactions and transactions involving brands other than MasterCard are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a PIN. The tables include information with respect to transactions involving MasterCard-branded cards that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. However, MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members that is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts, cards and acceptance locations columns is derived from information provided by MasterCard members and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. Certain information with respect to acceptance locations is provided by third parties and has not been independently verified by MasterCard. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's members subsequent to the date of its release. A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among members and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances.
In the three and six months ended June 30, 2007, GDV excludes commercial funds transfers in China, which are generally transactions that facilitate the transfer of funds between bank branches, but do not involve traditional cash withdrawals or balance transfers. Data for the comparable periods in 2006 have been updated to be consistent with this approach.
Performance information for prior periods may be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 11
Reconciliation to Total Operating Expenses, Total Other Income, Net Income and Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NM = Not meaningful
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 12
Reconciliation to Effective Tax Rate
 
Note that the figures in the preceding table may not sum due to rounding
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2007.



