FILE:MA/MA-8K-20080625095024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 24, 2008, MasterCard Incorporated and MasterCard International Incorporated (collectively, "MasterCard" or the "Company") entered into a settlement agreement (the "Settlement") with American Express Company ("American Express") relating to the U.S. federal antitrust litigation between MasterCard and American Express. This Settlement ends all existing litigation between American Express and MasterCard. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the Settlement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
As described in the press release included as Exhibit 99.1, under the Settlement, beginning on September 15, 2008, MasterCard will pay American Express up to $150 million each quarter for 12 quarters, payable in cash on the 15th day of the last month of each quarter, for a maximum of $1.8 billion. MasterCard expects to take a charge of approximately $1 billion on a tax-affected net present value basis in the second quarter of 2008. The charge is based upon MasterCard's assumption that American Express will achieve the financial performance hurdles described below. The quarterly payments will be in an amount equal to 15% of American Express's United States Global Network Services billings during the quarter, up to a maximum of $150 million per quarter. If, however, the payment for any quarter is less than $150 million, the maximum payment for subsequent quarters will be increased by the difference between $150 million and the lesser amount that was paid in any quarter in which there was a shortfall.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 MasterCard Incorporated today announced it has reached an agreement to settle its outstanding litigation with American Express.
Purchase, NY, June 25, 2008
The form of the agreement calls for 12 quarterly payments by MasterCard, beginning in the third quarter of 2008, of $150 million, contingent upon the performance of American Express's U.S. Global Network Services business. On a tax-affected net present value basis, the settlement payments are estimated to be, in the aggregate, approximately $1 billion. MasterCard will take a charge for the settlement in the current quarter. The maximum nominal amount of the settlement is $1.8 billion.
"We are pleased to have reached a settlement with terms that will enable us to keep our strong balance sheet intact, so we can continue to build on our exceptional business results and vigorously pursue our strategy," said MasterCard President and Chief Executive Officer Robert W. Selander. "Eliminating the uncertainty, time commitment, and expense of a prolonged court case is in the best interest of our shareholders, our customers and our management team," he stated.
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchant worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes over 18 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to .
www.mastercard.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the United States federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in general economic or industry conditions,
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2008. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
For Media: Sharon Gamsin, 914-249-5622,
sgamsin@mastercard.com
For Investors: Barbara Gasper, 914-249-4565, investor_relations@mastercard.com


