FILE:MA/MA-8K-20081027194859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 27, 2008, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard") entered into a Release and Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement") with Discover Financial Services ("Discover") and Visa, Inc. ("Visa") to settle outstanding litigation brought against MasterCard and Visa by Discover. This Settlement ends all existing litigation between the parties. Pursuant to the Settlement, MasterCard will pay to Discover $862.5 million in November 2008, which payment will be made pursuant to the terms of a judgment-sharing agreement entered into with Visa on July 29, 2008. In addition, in connection with the Settlement, Morgan Stanley, Discover's former parent company, agreed to pay MasterCard $35 million, resulting in a net settlement for MasterCard of $827.5 million. A copy of MasterCard's press release announcing both the Settlement and the agreement with Morgan Stanley is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 MasterCard Incorporated today announced that final agreement has been reached to settle outstanding litigation brought against MasterCard and Visa by Discover Financial Services. As a result, MasterCard will take a net after-tax charge of $515.5 million in the third quarter of 2008.
Purchase, NY, October 27, 2008
MasterCard will pay $862.5 million of the total $2.75 billion settlement reflecting the terms of a judgment-sharing agreement with Visa that was finalized in July, 2008. In addition, in connection with the settlement, Morgan Stanley, Discover's former parent company, agreed to pay MasterCard $35 million, resulting in a net settlement of $827.5 million. MasterCard will make its payment to Discover and receive the payment from Morgan Stanley in November.
"We believe Discover's lack of success resulted from decisions that created a business model that is not attractive to bank issuers. Nonetheless, we chose to settle this lawsuit to avoid the uncertainty and distraction of a lengthy jury trial. This result, which is in no way an admission of liability, is in the best interest of our shareholders, our customers and our company," said MasterCard General Counsel Noah J. Hanft. "We will continue to focus on out-competing Discover in the marketplace, where real-world performance is what counts."
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchant worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes over 18 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to .
www.mastercard.com
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the United States federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in general economic or industry conditions, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2008. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
For Media: Sharon Gamsin, 914-249-5622,
sgamsin@mastercard.com
For Investors: Barbara Gasper,914-249-4565, investor_relations@mastercard.com


