FILE:MA/MA-8K-20080429085010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2008, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On April 29, 2008, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter ended March 31, 2008 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2008. The company reported net income of $398 million, or $3.01 per share on a diluted basis, excluding a special item related to a $49 million after-tax gain from the termination of a customer business agreement. Including this special item, net income was $447 million, or $3.38 per share, on a diluted basis. Net income also incorporates after-tax gains of $56 million, or $0.42 per share on a diluted basis, from the remaining sales of the company's investment in Redecard S.A. in Brazil. The company's total other income, net income and earnings per share, excluding the special item, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
Purchase, NY, April 29, 2008
Net revenue for the first quarter of 2008 was $1.2 billion, a 29.2% increase versus the same period in 2007. Currency fluctuations (driven by movement of the euro and the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar) contributed 5.1% of the increase in net revenue for the quarter. Fueling the higher net revenue in the first quarter versus the same period in 2007 were:
 
 
 
 
Worldwide purchase volume during the quarter rose 15.0%, on a local currency basis, versus the first quarter of 2007, to $453 billion, driven by increased cardholder spending on a growing number of MasterCard cards. As of March 31, 2008, the company's financial-institution customers had issued 935 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 12.1% over the cards issued at March 31, 2007.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
 
"We are very pleased with our first-quarter financial results, which reflect the strong positioning of our unified global business," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "Regions outside the U.S., such as Latin America and South Asia, Middle East and Africa, are driving significant growth, and cross-border volumes remain healthy as cardholders continue to travel and prefer the use of electronic over paper-based forms of payment.
"MasterCard continues to see growth in the U.S. region despite continued economic uncertainty," Selander stated. "In this challenging economic environment, we are working closely with our customers to deliver the value and insights they have come to expect to help them meet their business objectives. We are committed to accelerating the global expansion of electronic payments, and are making investments to ensure we are properly aligned with our customers and merchants wherever they do business," said Selander.
Total operating expenses increased 10.9%, to $666 million, during the first quarter of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Currency fluctuations contributed 3.3% of the increase in expenses for the first quarter of 2008. Growth in total operating expenses was driven by:
 
 
Total other income was $173 million in the first quarter of 2008 versus $22 million in the first quarter of 2007, including the $75 million pre-tax gain from the termination of a customer business agreement. Excluding this special item, total other income increased $76 million versus the first quarter of 2007. This increase was driven primarily by $86 million in pre-tax gains from remaining sales of the company's investment in Redecard S.A. in Brazil, partially offset by other investment losses.
MasterCard's effective tax rate was 35.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2008, versus 36.0% in the comparable period in 2007. The company's tax rate was lower in the first quarter of 2008 due to tax reserves not increasing at the same level of the increase in pre-tax income.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
 
Class A Share Repurchase Update
In April 2007, the MasterCard Board of Directors authorized a plan for the company to repurchase up to $500 million of its Class A common stock in open market transactions during 2007. On October 29, 2007, the Board amended the share repurchase plan to authorize the company to repurchase an incremental $750 million (an aggregate for the entire repurchase program of $1.25 billion) of its Class A common stock in open market transactions through June 30, 2008.
During the first quarter, approximately 1.5 million shares of Class A common stock had been repurchased at a cost of $294 million. As of April 29, 2008, the company repurchased approximately 557,000 additional shares of its Class A common stock at a cost of $129 million, for a total of $1.02 billion of the approved $1.25 billion completed.
First-Quarter 2008 Financial Results Conference Call Details
At 9:00 a.m. EDT today, the company will host a conference call to discuss its first-quarter 2008 financial results.
The dial-in information for this call is 888-713-4205 (within the U.S.) and 617-213-4862 (outside the U.S.) and the passcode is 15455901. A replay of the call will be available for one week following the meeting. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the U.S.) and 617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.) and using passcode 18639831.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes over 18 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2008, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, chris_monteiro@mastercard.com, 914-249-5826
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
 
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
Footnote
The tables set forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional and global basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards, Mondex transactions and transactions involving brands other than MasterCard are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a PIN. The tables include information with respect to transactions involving MasterCard-branded cards that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts and cards columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among customers and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances. In order to provide a true indication of how broadly our cards can be used, MasterCard seeks to provide the most accurate acceptance figures possible and to maintain that MasterCard acceptance is unsurpassed worldwide by periodically validating our results with third parties. The data set forth in the acceptance locations column is derived through a proprietary methodology designed to minimize the impact of multiple acquiring in certain markets. This data is based on information provided by our customers and other third parties and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's customers subsequent to the date of its release.
Performance information for prior periods can be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 10
 
Reconciliation to Total Other Income, Net Income and Earnings Per Share
 
 
Note that the figures in the preceding table may not sum due to rounding
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2008.



