FILE:MA/MA-8K-20080117093821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 15, 2008, W. Roy Dunbar, President, Global Technology and Operations of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company"), submitted his resignation to the Company. Mr. Dunbar's resignation is effective March 15, 2008 and his active employment with the Company will terminate on January 31, 2008.
A copy of the Company's press release, issued on January 17, 2008, relating to the foregoing, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 W. Roy Dunbar, 46, PresidentGlobal Technology and Operations since 2004, will leave MasterCard Worldwide to become Chief Executive Officer of a company outside the payments industry. Details of his position will be announced shortly by his new company.
Purchase, NY, January 17, 2008
Mr. Dunbar's active employment concludes on January 31; his resignation from the company is effective on March 15. Rob Reeg, 51, Chief Technology Officer for MasterCard Worldwide, will head the unit on an interim basis.
Robert W. Selander, MasterCard President and CEO, noted that "Roy has made significant contributions to the company's strategic processing platform and seamless global network, which are competitive assets in the marketplace. I understand that Roy wants to take on an opportunity as CEO in a new arena, and I wish him well in his journey."
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes over 16 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to .
www.mastercard.com
 
 
Contacts:
Media Relations: Harvey Greisman, harvey_greisman@mastercard.com, 914-249-5536
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565


