FILE:MA/MA-8K-20080208154946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2008, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") approved performance targets for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2008 that will be used to determine the amounts of cash bonus awards that may be paid to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and other named executive officers disclosed in the Company's most recent proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (on April 26, 2007) under its Senior Executive Annual Incentive Compensation Plan ("SEAICP"). The cash bonus awards for 2008 under the SEAICP are based upon the Company's achievement of predetermined net income and operating margin improvement targets. Actual bonus award amounts will be based upon a weighting of two-thirds for actual performance achieved against the net income target and one-third for actual performance achieved against the operating margin improvement target. The Compensation Committee may reduce award amounts at its discretion. The Compensation Committee set the 2008 annual cash incentive awards (as a percentage of base salary) under the SEAICP for the Company's named executive officers as follows:
 
Performance below threshold would result in no cash bonus payout.
Also on February 4, 2008, the Compensation Committee approved increases to annual base salaries for certain of its named executive officers, to be effective March 1, 2008. These increases in annual base salaries are set forth on Exhibit 10.1, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
On February 4, 2008, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") approved increases to the annual base salaries (effective as of March 1, 2008) of certain of its named executive officers. The following table sets forth the annual base salary levels for the following named executive officers of the Company disclosed in the Company's most recent proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (on April 26, 2007):
 


