FILE:MA/MA-8K-20090220163334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 20, 2009, MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") announced that, effective February 20, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), Tara Maguire, Controller and principal accounting officer, would change roles and become Group Executive, Corporate Planning and Financial Analysis. The Company also announced that it had appointed Melissa Ballenger as Controller and principal accounting officer of the Company and of MasterCard International Incorporated ("MasterCard International"), effective as of the Effective Date.
Ms. Ballenger, age 38, served as Senior Vice PresidentController and Principal Accounting Officer of Washington Mutual, Inc. from March 2007 until October 2008 (following the acquisition by JP Morgan Chase & Co. of the banking operations of Washington Mutual) and Senior Vice PresidentAssistant Controller from August 2006 until March 2007. From February 2003 until August 2006, Ms. Ballenger worked for Freddie Mac, most recently as Vice President of Valuation Accounting, Policy and Analysis and prior to that, as Vice President of Accounting Policy.
In accordance with the terms of an employment offer letter between MasterCard International and Ms. Ballenger, dated January 30, 2009 and effective as of the Effective Date, Ms. Ballenger:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


