FILE:MA/MA-8K-20090501081100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2009, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release, MasterCard discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
MasterCard's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things, evaluate its ongoing operations in relation to historical results, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation S-K, the attached press release includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's related financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
On May 1, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter ended March 31, 2009 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for the first quarter 2009. The company reported net income of $367 million, or $2.80 per diluted share.
Purchase, NY, May 1, 2009
Net revenue for the first quarter of 2009 was $1.2 billion, a 2.2% decline versus the same period in 2008. The decline in net revenue growth was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange and higher rebates and incentives, partially offset by pricing, increased processed transactions and increases in other payment-related services. On a constant currency basis, net revenue increased 1.8% compared to the same period in 2008.
MasterCard's gross dollar volume was up 0.3%, on a local currency basis, versus the first quarter of 2008, to $550 billion. Worldwide purchase volume during the quarter was also up 0.3% on a local currency basis versus the first quarter of 2008, to $411 billion. The number of processed transactions increased 5.8% compared to the same period in 2008, to 5.1 billion. As of March 31, 2009, the company's financial-institution customers had issued 967 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 4.0% over the cards issued at March 31, 2008.
"As we navigate through these challenging economic times, we've taken important steps to better align our operations with the current environment," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "We've taken considerable cost-reduction actions allowing us to deliver a strong operating margin of 48.6%, while keeping focused to ensure MasterCard is well positioned for long-term growth.
"As we move forward," Selander added, "we're maintaining a flexible and adaptable approach to ensure we continue to deliver value to our customers. Whether through the innovative products and solutions we offer, or our unmatched advisory and information services, we're making payments easier and more efficient for everyone involved."
Total operating expenses decreased 10.8%, to $595 million, during the first quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Currency fluctuations contributed 2.9 percentage points to the rate of decline. The decrease in total operating expenses was driven by:
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
 
The operating margin was 48.6% for the first quarter of 2009, up 5.0 percentage points over the year-ago period.
Total other expense was $11 million in the first quarter of 2009 versus total other income of $173 million in the first quarter of 2008. The decrease was primarily due to gains realized in the first quarter of 2008 from the sale of a portion of the company's investment in Redecard S.A. Interest expense versus the year-ago period increased $20 million, primarily due to the interest accretion associated with a litigation settlement that occurred in the second quarter of 2008.
MasterCard's effective tax rate was 33.2% in the first quarter of 2009, versus 35.1% in the comparable period in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to an adjustment of deferred taxes.
There were no special items for the first quarter of 2009. The special item for the first quarter of 2008 related to a $75 million pre-tax gain from the termination of a customer business agreement. The company's total other income, net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying GAAP Reconciliations.
First-Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call Details
At 9:00 a.m. EDT today, the company will host a conference call to discuss its first-quarter 2009 financial results.
The dial-in information for this call is 866-711-8198 (within the U.S.) and 617-597-5327 (outside the U.S.) and the passcode is 20007083. A replay of the call will be available for one week thereafter. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the U.S.) and 617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.) and using passcode 64388164.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
 
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes approximately 21 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial-institution customers and merchants. Powered by the MasterCard Worldwide Network and through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to www.mastercard.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2008 and 2009, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, chris_monteiro@mastercard.com, 914-249-5826
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
 
Note that columns in the tables above may not add due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
Footnote
The tables set forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional and global basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards, Mondex transactions and transactions involving brands other than MasterCard are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receiptor enter a PIN. The tables include information with respect to transactions involving MasterCard-branded cards that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts and cards columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among customers and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances. In order to provide a true indication of how broadly our cards can be used, MasterCard seeks to provide the most accurate acceptance figures possible and to maintain that MasterCard acceptance is unsurpassed worldwide by periodically validating our results with third parties. The data set forth in the acceptance locations column is derived through a proprietary methodology designed to minimize the impact of multiple acquiring in certain markets. This data is based on information provided by our customers and other third parties and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's customers subsequent to the date of its release.
Performance information for prior periods can be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
GAAP Reconciliations
 
a - Gain from the termination of a customer business agreement
b - Amounts have been revised to conform with the adoption of FASB Staff Position EITF 03-06-1
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2009.



