FILE:MA/MA-8K-20090205081229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 5, 2009, MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fourth quarter and full year 2008.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On February 5, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and full year 2008 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2008. The company reported net income of $243 million, or $1.87 per diluted share, excluding a special item of $6 million related to a litigation settlement. Including the special item, the company reported net income of $239 million, or $1.84 per diluted share. The company's total operating expenses, operating margin, other income, effective tax rate, net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
Purchase, NY, February 5, 2009
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $1.2 billion, a 14.2% increase versus the same period in 2007. Currency fluctuations (driven by movement of the euro and the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar) tempered net revenue growth by 3.5 percentage points for the quarter. The higher net revenue in the fourth quarter versus the same period in 2007 was fueled by:
 
 
MasterCard's gross dollar volume increased 3.4%, on a local currency basis, to $605 billion. Worldwide purchase volume during the quarter rose 3.1% on a local currency basis, versus the fourth quarter of 2007, to $455 billion, driven by modest growth in cardholder spending on a growing number of MasterCard cards. As of December 31, 2008, the company's financial-institution customers had issued 981 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 7.6% over the cards issued at December 31, 2007.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
 
"Despite the significant economic turbulence around the world, we were able to achieve excellent fourth-quarter operating results while maintaining a healthy balance sheet, which is a strength in this environment," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "Our 2008 full-year results reflect our unique business model and the value we provide to our financial-institution customers around the world."
Selander stated, "We remain committed to taking a prudent approach to our business to ensure effective cost management, while opportunistically investing to drive long-term growth for MasterCard and deliver value to our customers and shareholders. Our recent organizational realignment and our acquisition of Orbiscom, a leading payments solutions software provider, reflect that approach."
"The economic environment remains challenging, with businesses, governments and consumers around the world rethinking how finances are managed. One thing is certain in this new reality of increased financial management control  the value and importance of electronic payments has never been greater," concluded Selander.
The special item for the fourth quarter of 2008 represented:
 
There were no special items for the fourth quarter of 2007.
Excluding the special item, total operating expenses decreased 16.0%, to $756 million, during the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Currency fluctuations of 2.0 percentage points contributed to the rate of decline for total operating expenses. The decrease in total operating expenses was driven by:
 
 
Including the special item, total operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2008 decreased 15.3% versus the year-ago period, to $762 million.
Excluding the special item, the operating margin was 38.2% for the fourth quarter of 2008, up 22.2 percentage points over the year-ago period. Including the special item, the operating margin was 37.7% for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Total other expense was $17 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus total other income of $295 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The decrease was primarily due to gains
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
 
realized in the fourth quarter of 2007 from the sale of a portion of the company's investment in Redecard S.A. Interest expense versus the year-ago period increased $21 million, primarily due to the interest accretion associated with the American Express settlement that occurred in the second quarter of 2008.
Excluding the special item, MasterCard's effective tax rate was 46.1% in the fourth quarter of 2008, versus 34.9% in the comparable period in 2007. The increase was primarily due to deferred tax remeasurement and increased FIN 48 tax reserves. Including the special item, the effective tax rate was 46.2% for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Full-Year 2008 Results
For the year-ended December 31, 2008, MasterCard reported net income of $1.2 billion, or $9.45 per diluted share, excluding the impact of special items, and a net loss of $254 million, or $1.95 per diluted share, including special items. Both earnings per share figures include after-tax gains from the sale of a portion of the company's investment in Redecard S.A. of $0.42 per share on a diluted basis.
Special items on a pre-tax basis for the full-year 2008 included:
 
 
 
 
Special items on a pre-tax basis for full-year 2007 included:
 
 
Net revenue for full-year 2008 was $5.0 billion, a 22.7% increase versus 2007. In addition to growth in GDV, processed transactions and cross-border transaction volumes, this increase was driven by pricing changes of approximately 6 percentage points, primarily associated with the cross-border transaction pricing implemented in 2008. Currency fluctuation contributed approximately 2.5 percentage points of the increase in revenue.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
 
Excluding special items for both periods, total operating expenses increased 2.9%, to $3.0 billion, for full-year 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to higher personnel expenses. Currency fluctuations contributed 1.7 percentage points of this increase. Growth in total operating expenses was driven by:
 
 
Including special items, operating expenses increased 86.7%, to $5.5 billion.
Excluding special items, the operating margin was 39.0% for full-year 2008, up 11.7 percentage points over the year-ago period. Including special items, the operating margin was a negative 10.7% for full-year 2008.
Total other income was $76 million for full-year 2008 versus $473 million for the same period in 2007, excluding special items in both periods. Other income decreased due to larger gains recorded in 2007 from the sale of Redecard securities. Additionally, interest expense versus the year-ago period increased $46 million, primarily due to the interest accretion associated with the 2008 American Express settlement. Including special items, total other income was $151 million for full-year 2008 and $563 million for full-year 2007.
MasterCard's effective tax rate, excluding litigation settlements, was 38.7% for the full-year 2008, versus a rate of 35.0% for the full-year 2007. The increase was primarily due to deferred tax remeasurement and increased FIN 48 tax reserves. Including the litigation settlements, the effective tax rate was 33.7% for 2008 and 35.0% for 2007.
Fourth-Quarter 2008 Financial Results Conference Call Details
At 9:00 a.m. EST today, the company will host a conference call to discuss its fourth-quarter and full-year 2008 financial results.
The dial-in information for this call is 866-578-5771 (within the U.S.) and 617-213-8055 (outside the U.S.) and the passcode is 31072600. A replay of the call will be available for one week thereafter. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the U.S.) and 617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.) and using passcode 44423914.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes approximately 21 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial institution customers and merchants. Through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to www.mastercard.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2008 and 2009, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, chris_monteiro@mastercard.com, 914-249-5826
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
 
Note that columns in the tables above may not add due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 10
 
Footnote
The tables set forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional and global basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards, Mondex transactions and transactions involving brands other than MasterCard are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a PIN. The tables include information with respect to transactions involving MasterCard-branded cards that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts and cards columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among customers and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances. In order to provide a true indication of how broadly our cards can be used, MasterCard seeks to provide the most accurate acceptance figures possible and to maintain that MasterCard acceptance is unsurpassed worldwide by periodically validating our results with third parties. The data set forth in the acceptance locations column is derived through a proprietary methodology designed to minimize the impact of multiple acquiring in certain markets. This data is based on information provided by our customers and other third parties and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's customers subsequent to the date of its release.
Performance information for prior periods can be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 11
 
Reconciliation of Financial Results
 
 
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 12
 
Reconciliation to Effective Tax Rate for Litigation Settlements and Stock Donations
 
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 2009.



