FILE:MA/MA-8K-20090730081217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 30, 2009, MasterCard Incorporated ("MasterCard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release, MasterCard discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
MasterCard's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things, evaluate its ongoing operations in relation to historical results, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation S-K, the attached press release includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's related financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
On July 30, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter ended June 30, 2009 financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
-
      Net income growth of 26.4%, excluding the special item from last year
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2009. The company reported net income of $349 million, or $2.67 per diluted share. Net income grew 26.4%, excluding the special item from last year. The company's total operating expenses, other income, effective tax rate, net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying GAAP reconciliations.
Purchase, NY, July 30, 2009
Net revenue for the second quarter of 2009 was $1.3 billion, a 2.7% increase versus the same period in 2008. On a constant currency basis (excluding the movement of the euro and the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar), net revenue increased 7.0% compared to the same period in 2008. The higher net revenue in the second quarter this year was fueled by:
 
 
 
These contributing factors were partially offset by the impact of lower gross dollar volumes on second-quarter 2009 revenue.
MasterCard's gross dollar volume was down by 0.6% on a local currency basis, versus the second quarter of 2008, to $595 billion. Worldwide purchase volume during the quarter was down by 0.7% on a local currency basis, versus the second quarter of 2008, to $450 billion. As of June 30, 2009, the company's financial-institution customers had issued 959 million MasterCard cards, an increase of 1.2% over the cards issued at June 30, 2008.
"We are very pleased with our second-quarter financial performance and are adapting well to the challenging economic environment," said Robert W. Selander, MasterCard president and chief executive officer. "The thoughtful actions we've taken to realign our resources
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 2
 
and priorities to match customer and local market needs, as well as our sharp focus on expense management, have enabled us to deliver strong operating margin and net income improvements.
"At the same time, we continue to invest in the future so that we are solidly positioned once the economic tide begins to turn," said Selander. "We operate a global, flexible and resilient business that will continue to benefit from the ongoing shift toward electronic payments, which consumers, businesses and governments find more efficient, secure and easier to manage."
The special item for the second quarter of 2009 represented a $0.5 million litigation settlement charge. The special item for the second quarter of 2008 represented a $1.65 billion charge related to a litigation settlement.
Excluding special items, total operating expenses decreased 13.0%, to $722 million, during the second quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Currency fluctuations contributed 3.2 percentage points to the rate of decline. The decrease in total operating expenses was driven by:
 
 
Including special items, total operating expenses decreased 70.9%, to $723 million, primarily due to the litigation settlement that occurred in the second quarter of 2008.
Operating margin was 43.6 % for the second quarter of 2009, up 10.2 percentage points over the year-ago period, excluding special items.
Total other expense was $21 million in the second quarter of 2009 versus total other income of $10 million in the second quarter of 2008. Interest expense versus the year-ago period increased $16 million, primarily due to the interest accretion associated with the litigation settlement that occurred in the second quarter of 2008.
Excluding special items in both periods, MasterCard's effective tax rate was 35.0% in the second quarter of 2009, versus 35.3% in the comparable period in 2008. Including the special items, the effective tax rate was 35.0% for the second quarter of 2009, versus 39.0% in the comparable period in 2008. The difference in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the charge for the litigation settlement recorded in the second quarter of 2008.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 3
 
Year-to-Date 2009 Results
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, MasterCard reported net income of $717 million excluding the special item and $716 million including the special item, or $5.47 per diluted share in both cases.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $2.4 billion, or essentially flat versus the same period in 2008. On a constant currency basis, net revenue increased 4.5%. Increased processed transactions of 6.9% and pricing changes of approximately 6 percentage points contributed to the revenue growth in the year-to-date period. These contributing factors were partially offset by the impact of lower gross dollar volumes on revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2009.
Total operating expenses decreased 12.0%, to $1.3 billion, for the six-month period compared to the same period in 2008, excluding special items for both periods. Currency fluctuations contributed 3.2 percentage points of this decrease. Including special items, operating expenses decreased 58.1%, to $1.3 billion.
Total other expense was $32 million for the six-month period versus total other income of $183 million for the same period in 2008, including special items. The decrease was primarily driven by gains from the sale of Redecard securities and the termination of a customer business agreement in 2008.
MasterCard's effective tax rate, excluding special items, was 34.1% in the six months ended June 30, 2009, versus a rate of 35.2% in the comparable period in 2008. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an adjustment to deferred taxes reflected in the first quarter of 2009. Including the special items, the effective tax rate was 34.1% for the 2009 period, and 43.9% for the 2008 period. The difference in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the charge for the litigation settlement in 2008.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 4
 
Second-Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call Details
At 9:00 a.m. EDT today, the company will host a conference call to discuss its second-quarter 2009 financial results.
The dial-in information for this call is 866-730-5763 (within the U.S.) and 857-350-1587 (outside the U.S.) and the passcode is 10997135. A replay of the call will be available for one week thereafter. The replay can be accessed by dialing 888-286-8010 (within the U.S.) and 617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.) and using passcode 96583440.
The live call and the replay, along with supporting materials, can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.mastercard.com.
About MasterCard Incorporated
MasterCard Incorporated advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions, processes approximately 21 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial-institution customers and merchants. Powered by the MasterCard Worldwide Network and through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to .
www.mastercard.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 5
 
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2009, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, investor_relations@mastercard.com, 914-249-4565
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, chris_monteiro@mastercard.com, 914-249-5826
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 6
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 7
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 8
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 9
 
 
Note that columns in the tables above may not add due to rounding; growth represents change from the comparable year-ago period.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 10
 
Footnote
The tables set forth the gross dollar volume ("GDV"), purchase volume, cash volume and the number of purchase transactions, cash transactions, accounts, cards and acceptance locations on a regional and global basis for MasterCard-branded and MasterCard Electronic-branded cards. Growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Debit transactions on Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards, Mondex transactions and transactions involving brands other than MasterCard are not included in the preceding tables.
For purposes of the table: GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; "purchase volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period; and "cash volume" means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with MasterCard-branded cards for the relevant period. The number of cards includes virtual cards, which are MasterCard-branded payment accounts in connection with which functional cards are not generally issued. Acceptance locations include merchant locations, ATMs and other locations where cash may be obtained.
The MasterCard payment product is comprised of credit, charge and debit programs, and data relating to each type of program is included in the tables. Debit programs include MasterCard-branded debit programs where the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for cardholders either to sign a sales receipt or enter a PIN. The tables include information with respect to transactions involving MasterCard-branded cards that are not processed by MasterCard and transactions for which MasterCard does not earn significant revenues.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which MasterCard volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. MasterCard reports period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change.
The data set forth in the GDV, purchase volume, purchase transactions, cash volume and cash transactions columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. The data set forth in the accounts and cards columns is provided by MasterCard customers and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard. A portion of the data set forth in the accounts and cards columns reflects the impact of routine portfolio changes among customers and other practices that may lead to over counting of the underlying data in certain circumstances. In order to provide a true indication of how broadly our cards can be used, MasterCard seeks to provide the most accurate acceptance figures possible and to maintain that MasterCard acceptance is unsurpassed worldwide by periodically validating our results with third parties. The data set forth in the acceptance locations column is derived through a proprietary methodology designed to minimize the impact of multiple acquiring in certain markets. This data is based on information provided by our customers and other third parties and is subject to certain limited verification by MasterCard and partial cross-checking against information provided by MasterCard's transaction processing systems. All data is subject to revision and amendment by MasterCard's customers subsequent to the date of its release.
Performance information for prior periods can be found in the "Investor Relations" section of MasterCard's website at www.mastercard.com.
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 11
 
GAAP Reconciliations
 
a - Litigation Settlements
b - Gain from the termination of a customer business agreement
c - Amounts have been revised to conform with the adoption of FASB Staff Position EITF 03-06-1
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
MasterCard Incorporated  Page 12
 
Reconciliation to Effective Tax Rate for the American Express Litigation Settlement
 
Note that the figures in the preceding tables may not sum due to rounding
For more information about these reconciliations, refer to MasterCard Incorporated's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2009.



