FILE:MA/MA-8K-20100923083722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2010, at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company"), the holders of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 ("Class A common stock"), approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's certificate of incorporation (the "Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation") to:
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2010, the Company filed the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in the form previously attached to, and as described in, the Company's proxy statement, dated July 30, 2010, in connection with the Annual Meeting (the "Proxy Statement").
Also on September 21, 2010, the Company's amended and restated bylaws (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"), in the form previously attached to, and as described in, the Proxy Statement, became effective. The Amended and Restated Bylaws were previously approved by the Company's Board of Directors and their effectiveness was conditioned upon stockholder approval of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation at the Annual Meeting and its becoming effective thereafter through filing with the Delaware Secretary of State.
The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Amended and Restated Bylaws are attached as Exhibit 3.1 and Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference as though they were fully set forth herein.
 
As described in Item 5.03 above, the Annual Meeting was held on September 21, 2010. A total of 102,753,575 shares of Class A common stock, out of 118,834,396 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of the July 26, 2010 record date for the Annual Meeting, were represented in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting. The votes cast with respect to the matters voted upon at the Annual Meeting are set forth below:
1. The holders of Class A common stock approved each of the four proposals comprising the proposal to amend and restate the Company's current certificate of incorporation:
 
 
2. The holders of Class A common stock approved the adjournment of the Annual Meeting, had it been necessary or appropriate, to solicit additional proxies if there were not sufficient votes to approve each of the proposals comprising Proposal 1 at the time of the Annual Meeting:
 
3. The holders of Class A common stock re-elected the following four directors to serve on the Company's Board of Directors as directors (Class I) for a three-year term expiring on the date of the Company's 2013 annual meeting of stockholders:
 
4. The holders of Class A common stock re-approved the Company's Senior Executive Annual Incentive Compensation Plan:
 
 
5. The holders of Class A common stock ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for 2010:
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
MasterCard Incorporated (the ""), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
Corporation
A. The name of the Corporation is MasterCard Incorporated. The Corporation was originally incorporated under the name MasterCard Incorporated. The Corporation's original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 9, 2001.
B. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which amends and restates the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in its entirety, was duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").
DGCL
C. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall read in its entirety as follows:
Section 1.1. . The name of the Corporation is MasterCard Incorporated (the "").
Name
Corporation
Section 2.1. . The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801; and the name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
Address
Section 3.1. . The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").
Purpose
DGCL
Section 4.1. . The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Corporation is authorized to issue is 4,500,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 300,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share (""), (ii) 3,000,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share ("") and (iii) 1,200,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share ("" and, together with the Class A Common Stock, the ""). The number of authorized shares of any of the Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock or Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then
Capitalization
Preferred Stock
Class A Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Common Stock
outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the DGCL (or any successor provision thereto), and no vote of the holders of any of the Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock or Preferred Stock voting separately as a class shall be required therefor.
Section 4.2. .
Preferred Stock
(A) The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "") is hereby expressly authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding.
Board
(B) Except as otherwise required by law, holders of a series of Preferred Stock, as such, shall be entitled only to such voting rights, if any, as shall expressly be granted thereto by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to such series).
Section 4.3. .
Common Stock
(A) .
Voting Rights
(1) Each holder of Class A Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to one vote for each share of Class A Common Stock held of record by such holder on all matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote; , that to the fullest extent permitted by law, holders of Class A Common Stock, as such, shall have no voting power with respect to, and shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) or pursuant to the DGCL.
provided, however
(2) To the fullest extent permitted by law, holders of Class B Common Stock, as such, shall have no voting power and shall not be entitled to vote on any matter.
(B) .
Dividends and Distributions
Subject to applicable law and the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to
 
participate with the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends, dividends may be declared and paid on the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock out of the assets of the Corporation that are by law available therefor at such times and in such amounts as the Board in its discretion shall determine. Except as otherwise required by the DGCL, in any circumstance where the Corporation may declare dividends or otherwise make distributions (including, without limitation, any distribution on liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation) on either the Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, the Corporation shall declare the same per share dividends or make the same per share distributions, as the case may be, on such other class of Common Stock; , that if any such dividends or distributions are declared with respect to the Class A Common Stock in the form of additional shares of Class A Common Stock, such dividends or distributions shall be made with respect to the Class B Common Stock in the form of an equivalent number of shares of Class B Common Stock and if any such dividends or distributions are declared with respect to the Class B Common Stock in the form of additional shares of Class B Common Stock, such dividends or distributions shall be made with respect to the Class A Common Stock in the form of an equivalent number of shares of Class A Common Stock.
provided, however
(C) . Class B Common Stock may only be held by (i) a Class A member or affiliate member of MasterCard International Incorporated (""), (ii) the Corporation or a subsidiary thereof or (iii) a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or a subsidiary thereof. Any transfer or purported transfer that would result in a violation of the immediately preceding sentence shall be void and any shares of Class B Common Stock held in violation of this Section 4.3(C) may be redeemed by the Corporation, or its designee, at a price per share equal to the lesser of (i) the per share consideration paid in the transaction that resulted in such violative transfer (or, in the case of a devise, gift or other such transaction without consideration, the Market Price at the time of such devise or gift or other such transaction) and (ii) the Market Price on the date the Corporation, or its designee, elects to redeem such shares.
Ownership of Class B Common Stock
MasterCard International
ab initio
(D) .
Conversion
(1) (A) Any holder of Class B Common Stock may, at any time and from time to time at such holder's option, convert all or any portion of such holder's shares of Class B Common Stock into an equal number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common Stock by delivery of written or electronic notice (or such other reasonable means as the Corporation may establish) to the Corporation (and, if such shares are held in certificated form, delivery and surrender to the Corporation of the certificates representing the shares of Class B Common Stock to be so converted); , that nothing herein shall entitle any Person to convert Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock if this would result in any Member (including such Person) Beneficially Owning any share of Class A Common Stock except as permitted pursuant to Section 4.3(D)(1)(B). Subject to the provisos contained in the immediately preceding sentence, a conversion pursuant to this Section 4.3(D)(1)(A) may be effected in connection with a transfer of shares Beneficially Owned by a Member. Upon such delivery of written notice (and, if applicable, surrender of certificates) pursuant to this Section 4.3(D)(1)(A), the Corporation shall deliver or cause to be delivered
provided, however
 
to or upon the written order of the record owner of such shares of Class B Common Stock the number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common Stock into which the shares of such Class B Common Stock have been converted in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4.3(D)(1)(A). The Corporation may, in connection with any conversion pursuant to this Section 4.3(D)(1)(A), require such evidence as the Board may determine in its sole discretion, that following such conversion the shares shall not be Beneficially Owned by a Member except as permitted pursuant to Section 4.3(D)(1)(B). The Board may from time to time establish such procedures as it may in its sole and absolute discretion determine to be necessary or desirable for the orderly conversion of Class B Common Stock, which procedures shall be binding upon the holders of Class B Common Stock.
 
(2) The Corporation will pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Class A Common Stock on the conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock pursuant to Section 4.3(D)(1)(A); , , that the Corporation shall not be required to pay any taxes which may be payable in respect of any registration of transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Class A Common Stock in a name other than that of the record owner of Class B Common Stock converted or to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such taxes or has established, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Corporation, that such taxes have been paid.
provided
however
(3) As long as any shares of Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding, the Corporation shall reserve and keep available out of its authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock, solely for the purpose of effecting the conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock, that number of shares of Class A Common Stock necessary to effect the conversion of all of the then outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock. If at any time the Board determines that the number of authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock would be insufficient to effect the conversion of all of the then outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, the Board shall use all reasonable efforts to cause the Corporation's authorized but unissued shares of Class A Common Stock to be increased to such number of shares as shall be sufficient to effect such conversion.
(4) Upon the occurrence of a conversion pursuant to Section 4.3(D)(1)(A), the Class B Common Stock so converted shall be retired and may not be reissued.
(5) Shares of Class A Common Stock shall not be convertible into any other class or series.
 
(E) . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, after payment or provision for payment of the debts and other liabilities of the Corporation and of the preferential and other amounts, if any, to which the holders of Preferred Stock shall be entitled, the holders of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by each such stockholder.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
(F) . In the event that the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then, and in such event, the shares of each such class of Common Stock shall be exchanged for or changed into the same per share amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property, as the case may be, into which or for which each share of the other class of Common Stock is exchanged or changed; , that if shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into shares of capital stock, such shares so exchanged for or changed into may differ to the extent and only to the extent that the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock differ as provided herein.
Mergers, Consolidation, Etc
provided, however
(G) . In the event that the Corporation shall, at any time when any shares of Class B Common Stock are outstanding, effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Class A Common Stock, then in each case the Corporation shall, at the same time, effect an equivalent subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Class B Common Stock. In the event that the Corporation shall at any time when any shares of Class A Common Stock are outstanding effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Class B Common Stock, then in each case the Corporation shall, at the same time, effect an equivalent subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Class A Common Stock.
Adjustments
(H) .
Limitations on Beneficial Ownership of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock
(1) Except as permitted pursuant to Section 4.3(D)(1), no Member or Similar Person (as defined below) shall Beneficially Own any share of Class A Common Stock or any share of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (""). Any Beneficial Ownership in violation of this Section 4.3(H)(1) (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Beneficial Ownership of a Person that shall thereafter become a Member or Similar Person) shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4.3(H)(5)-(8).
Other Voting Stock
 
(2) No Person shall Beneficially Own (a) shares of Class A Common Stock representing more than 15% of the aggregate outstanding shares or voting power of Class A Common Stock; (b) shares of any class or series of Other Voting Stock representing more than 15% of the aggregate outstanding shares or voting power of such class or series of Other Voting Stock; or (c) shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock representing more than 15% of the aggregate voting power of all the then outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting as a single class. Any Beneficial Ownership in violation of this Section 4.3(H)(2) shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4.3(H)(5)-(8).
(3) (a) Notwithstanding Section 4.3(H)(2), The MasterCard Foundation may Beneficially Own more than 15% of the aggregate outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock; that The MasterCard Foundation shall not Beneficially Own more than 20% of the aggregate outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock.
provided
(b) Notwithstanding Sections 4.3(H)(1) and (2), an underwriter that participates in a public offering or a private placement of Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock) may Beneficially Own shares of Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock) in excess of the limitations on Beneficial Ownership set forth in Sections 4.3(H)(1) and (2), but only to the extent necessary to facilitate such public offering or private placement.
(c) A Person (including, without limitation, a Member or Similar Person) shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own shares of Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock) for purposes of Sections 4.3(H)(1) and (2) if such shares of Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A Common Stock or Other Voting Stock) are (x) held for the benefit of third parties or in customer or fiduciary accounts in the ordinary course of such Person's business and if such shares are held by such Person without the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation or (y) are held by the designated market maker for the Class A Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the Corporation elects to list the Class A Common Stock on a different securities exchange, the market maker for the Class A Common Stock designated by such exchange or, failing such a designation, by the Corporation) in the ordinary course of such designated market maker's business, if such shares are held by such designated market maker without the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation.
(4) . Capitalized terms defined below shall have the meanings assigned to them below when used throughout this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. In the case of any ambiguity in the definition of any of the capitalized terms defined below or elsewhere in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of the Corporation shall have the power to resolve such ambiguity in its sole and absolute discretion.
Definitions
 
(a) "Affiliate" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") (or any successor rule).
Exchange Act
(b) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act (or any successor rules), except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular Person, such Person will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such Person has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns", "Beneficial Ownership" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning.
(c) "Charitable Beneficiary" shall mean one or more beneficiaries of the Trust as determined pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(7)(f), that each such organization must be described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code and contributions to each such organization must be eligible for deduction under each of Sections 170(b)(1)(A), 2055 and 2522 of the Code (or any successor provisions).
provided
(d) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
(e) "Market Price" of a security on any date shall mean the last reported sale price for such security, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, for such security, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported on the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is listed or admitted to trading or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal other automated quotation system that may then be in use or, if such security is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in such security selected by the Board or, in the event that no trading price is available for such security, the fair market value of such security as determined in good faith by the Board.
 
(f) "Member" shall mean any Person that on May 30, 2006 was or thereafter shall have become or shall become, a Class A member or affiliate member of MasterCard International or licensee of any of the Corporation's or MasterCard International's brands, or an Affiliate of any of the foregoing, whether or not such Person continues to retain such status.
(g) "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, estate, trust (including a trust qualified under Sections 401(a) or 501(c)(17) of the Code), a portion of a trust permanently set aside for or to be used exclusively for the purposes described in Section 642(c) of the Code, association, private foundation within the meaning of Section 509(a) of the Code, joint stock company or other entity and also includes a group as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(h) "Prohibited Owner" shall mean, with respect to any purported Transfer, any Person who, but for the provisions of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2), would Beneficially Own shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock, and if appropriate in the context, shall also mean any Person who would have been the record owner of the shares that the Prohibited Owner would have so owned.
(i) "Similar Person" shall mean any Person that is an operator, member or licensee of any general purpose payment card system that competes with the Corporation, or any Affiliate of such a Person.
(j) "The MasterCard Foundation" shall mean The MasterCard Foundation, a legal entity incorporated as a corporation without share capital under the Canada Corporations Act.
(k) "Transfer" shall mean any issuance, sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition, as well as any other event that causes any Person to acquire Beneficial Ownership, or any agreement to take any such actions or cause any such events, of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock or the right to vote Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock, including (a) the granting or exercise of any option (or any disposition of any option), (b) any disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock or any interest in Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock or any exercise of any such conversion or exchange right and (c) Transfers of interests in other entities that result in changes in Beneficial Ownership of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock; in each case, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether owned of record, or Beneficially Owned and whether by operation of law or otherwise. The terms "Transferring" and "Transferred" shall have the correlative meanings.
 
(l) "Trust" shall mean any trust as defined in Section 4.3(H)(5)(a).
(m) "Trustee" shall mean a Person unaffiliated with the Corporation, a Prohibited Owner or any Member or Similar Person, that is appointed by the Corporation to serve as trustee of a Trust.
(5) . If any Transfer is purportedly effected which, if effective, would result in any Person Beneficially Owning shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock in violation of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2), then the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in respect of such shares, including, without limitation, voting rights or rights to dividends or other distributions with respect to such shares and:
Violative Transfer
(a) that number of shares of the Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock the Beneficial Ownership of which otherwise would cause such Person to violate Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) (rounded to the next highest whole share) shall be automatically transferred to a trust ("") for the benefit of a Charitable Beneficiary, effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of such transfer, and such Person shall acquire no rights in such shares; or
Trust
(b) if the transfer to the Trust described in clause (a) of this Section 4.3(H)(5) would not be effective for any reason to prevent the violation of Section 4.3(H)(1) or (2), as applicable, then, subject to Section 4.3(H)(9) hereof, the Transfer of that number of shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock that otherwise would cause any Person to violate Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) shall be void .
ab initio
(6) . If the Board shall at any time determine in good faith that a Transfer or other event has purportedly taken place that, if effected would result in a violation of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) or that a Person intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership of any shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock in violation of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) (whether or not such violation is intended), the Board shall take such action as it deems advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer or other event, including, without limitation, causing the Corporation to redeem shares pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(7)(e), refusing to give effect to such Transfer on the books of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin such Transfer or other event; , that any Transfer or attempted Transfer or other event in violation of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) shall automatically result in the Transfer to a Trust, and, where applicable, such Transfer (or other event) in violation of Section 4.3(H)(1) or (2) shall be void irrespective of any action (or non-action) by the Board.
Remedies for Breach
provided, however
ab initio
(7) .
Transfer of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock in Trust
(a) . Upon any purported Transfer that would result in a transfer of shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock to a
Ownership in Trust
 
Trust pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(5), such shares shall be deemed to have been Transferred to the trustee of the Trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. Such Transfer to the Trustee shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of such purported Transfer or other event that results in the Transfer to the Trust pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(5). The Trustee shall be appointed by the Corporation and shall be a Person unaffiliated with the Corporation and any Prohibited Owner or Member. Each Charitable Beneficiary shall be designated by the Corporation as provided in Section 4.3(H)(7)(f).
(b) . Shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock held by the Trustee shall be issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock, respectively, of the Corporation. The Prohibited Owner shall have no rights in the shares held by the Trustee. The Prohibited Owner shall not benefit economically from ownership of any shares held in trust by the Trustee, shall have no rights to dividends or other distributions and shall not possess any rights to vote or other rights attributable to the shares held in the Trust.
Status of Shares Held by the Trustee
(c) . The Trustee shall have all voting rights and rights to dividends or other distributions with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock held in the Trust, which rights shall be exercised for the exclusive benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. Any dividend or other distribution paid prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred to the Trustee shall be paid by the recipient of such dividend or distribution to the Trustee upon demand and any dividend or other distribution authorized but unpaid shall be paid when due to the Trustee. Any dividend or distribution so paid to the Trustee shall be held in trust for the Charitable Beneficiary. The Prohibited Owner shall have no voting rights with respect to shares held in the Trust and, subject to the DGCL, effective as of the date that the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred to the Trustee, the Trustee shall have the authority (at the Trustee's sole discretion) (i) to rescind as void any vote cast by a Prohibited Owner prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred to the Trustee and (ii) to recast such vote in accordance with the desires of the Trustee acting for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary; , that if the Corporation has already taken corporate action pursuant to such vote, then the Trustee shall not have the authority to rescind and recast such vote. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4.3(H), until the Corporation has received notification that shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred into a Trust, the Corporation shall be entitled to rely on its share transfer and other stockholder records for purposes of preparing lists of stockholders entitled to vote at meetings, determining the validity and authority of proxies and otherwise conducting votes of stockholders.
Dividend and Voting Rights
provided, however
 
(d) . Within 20 days of receiving notice from the Corporation that shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred to the Trust, the Trustee of the Trust shall sell the shares held in the Trust to a Person, designated by the Trustee, whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limitations set forth in Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2), as applicable. Upon such sale, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary in the shares sold shall terminate and the Trustee shall distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Prohibited Owner and to the Charitable Beneficiary as provided in this Section. The Prohibited Owner shall receive the lesser of (1) the price paid by the Prohibited Owner for the shares or, if the Prohibited Owner did not give value for the shares in connection with the event causing the shares to be held in the Trust (e.g., in the case of a gift, devise or other such transaction), the Market Price of the shares on the day of the event causing the shares to be held in the Trust and (2) the price per share received by the Trustee (net of any commissions and other expenses of sale) from the sale or other disposition of the shares held in the Trust. The Trustee may reduce the amount payable to the Prohibited Owner by the amount of dividends and distributions which have been paid to the Prohibited Owner and are owed by the Prohibited Owner to the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(7)(c). Any net sales proceeds in excess of the amount payable to the Prohibited Owner shall be immediately paid to the Charitable Beneficiary. If, prior to the discovery by the Corporation that shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock have been transferred to the Trustee, such shares are sold by a Prohibited Owner, then (i) such shares shall be deemed to have been sold on behalf of the Trust and (ii) to the extent that the Prohibited Owner received an amount for such shares that exceeds the amount that such Prohibited Owner was entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 4.3(H)(7)(d), such excess shall be paid to the Trustee upon demand.
Sale of Shares by Trustee
(e) . Shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock transferred to the Trustee may be redeemed by the Corporation, or its designee, at a price per share equal to the lesser of (i) the per share consideration paid in the transaction that resulted in such transfer to the Trust (or, in the case of a devise, gift or other such transaction without consideration, the Market Price at the time of such devise or gift or other such transaction) and (ii) the Market Price on the date the Corporation, or its designee, elects to redeem such shares. The Corporation may reduce the amount payable to the Prohibited Owner by the amount of dividends and distributions which have been paid to the Prohibited Owner and are owed by the Prohibited Owner to the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(7)(c). The Corporation may pay the amount of such reduction to the Trustee for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. The Corporation shall have the right to redeem such shares until the Trustee has sold the shares held in the Trust pursuant to Section 4.3(H)(7)(d). Upon such a redemption, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary in the shares shall terminate and the Trustee shall distribute the net proceeds of the redemption to the Prohibited Owner.
Right to Redeem Stock Transferred to the Trustee
 
(f) . By written notice to the Trustee, the Corporation shall designate one or more nonprofit organizations to be the Charitable Beneficiary of the interest in the Trust such that the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock held in the Trust would not violate the restrictions set forth in Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) in the hands of such Charitable Beneficiary.
Designation of Charitable Beneficiaries
(8) . Any Person who acquires or attempts or intends to acquire Beneficial Ownership of shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock that will or may violate Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2) or any Person who would have owned shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock that resulted in a transfer to the Trust pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.3(H)(5) shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such event, or in the case of such a proposed or attempted transaction, give at least 15 days prior written notice, and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such Transfer on the Corporation.
Notice of Restricted Transfer
(9) . Nothing in Section 4.3(H) shall preclude the settlement of any transaction entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system. The fact that the settlement of any transaction occurs shall not negate the effect of any other provision of this Section 4.3(H) and any transferee in such a transaction shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations set forth in this Section 4.3(H).
NYSE Transactions
(10) . In the case of an ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of this Section 4.3(H), the Board of the Corporation shall have the power to determine the application of the provisions of this Section 4.3(H) with respect to any situation based on the facts known to it. In the event Section 4.3(H)(6) or (7) requires or permits an action or determination by the Board and this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation fails to provide specific guidance with respect to such action or determination, the Board shall have the power to determine the action to be taken or determination to be made in its sole and absolute discretion so long as such action or determination is not contrary to the provisions of Section 4.3(H). Absent a decision to the contrary by the Board (which the Board may make in its sole and absolute discretion), if a Person would have (but for the remedies set forth in Section 4.3(H)(6)) acquired Beneficial Ownership of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock in violation of Sections 4.3(H)(1) or (2), such remedies (as applicable) shall apply first, to the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock which, but for such remedies, would have been owned directly by such Person, second, to the shares which, but for such remedies, would have been wholly Beneficially Owned (but not owned directly) by such Person, and thereafter, to the shares which, but for such remedies, would have been Beneficially Owned by such Person, pro rata among the Persons who directly own such shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock based upon the relative number of the shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Other Voting Stock held by each such Person.
Ambiguity
 
(11) . The Corporation is authorized specifically to seek equitable relief, including injunctive relief, to enforce the provisions of this Section 4.3(H).
Enforcement
(12) . No delay or failure on the part of the Corporation or the Board in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of any right of the Corporation or the Board, as the case may be, except to the extent specifically waived in writing.
Non-Waiver
(I) . Any certificate for shares of Common Stock shall bear a legend that the shares represented by such certificates are subject to the restrictions on transferability set forth herein.
Legend
Section 5.1. . In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the DGCL, the Board is expressly authorized to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the by-laws of the Corporation without the assent or vote of the stockholders in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all the then outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal any provision of the by-laws of the Corporation or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
By-Laws
Section 6.1. .
Board of Directors: Composition
(A) The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board consisting of not less than three directors or more than fifteen directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board. Any directors that may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock shall be included within the number of directors fixed by or pursuant to this Section 6.1(A).
(B) Subject to the succeeding provisions of this Section 6.1(B), the directors shall be divided into three classes designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board and at each annual meeting of stockholders prior to the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders commencing with the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Commencing with the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the foregoing classification of the Board of Directors shall cease. If the number of directors is changed prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each
 
class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a newly created directorship resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class. If the number of directors is increased at or following the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, any additional director elected to fill a newly created directorship resulting from such increase shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. In no case shall a decrease in the number of directors remove or shorten the term of any incumbent director.
(C) A majority of the total number of directors then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of directors constituting the entire Board) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; , that a quorum shall not be constituted unless directors who are neither Industry Directors nor officers or employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries represent a majority of the directors present. Except as otherwise provided by law, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the by-laws of the Corporation, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board. "" means any director, other than a director who is an officer or employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, who is presently, or who has been, within the prior eighteen months, previously affiliated with a Member or Similar Person.
provided
Industry Director
(D) A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.
(E) Directors need not be elected by written ballot unless the by-laws shall so provide.
Section 6.2. . Any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office who are not Industry Directors, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director who is not an Industry Director. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if the Board shall be comprised only of Industry Directors, any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, if any applicable provision of the DGCL expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes cast thereon by the outstanding shares of the Corporation then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor.
Board of Directors: Vacancies
Section 6.3. . Prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, directors may be removed with or without cause, but only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the then outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting as a single class. Commencing with the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, directors may be removed with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Removal of Directors
 
Section 6.4. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately as a series or separately as a class with one or more such other series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article VI unless expressly provided by such terms.
Election of Directors by Preferred Stock Holders
Section 7.1. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders; , that any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, or, to the extent expressly permitted by the certificate of designation relating to one or more series of Preferred Stock, by the holders of such series of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a series or separately as a class with one or more other such series, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding shares of the relevant class or series having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or to an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by or at the direction of the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
Meetings of Stockholders
provided, however
Section 8.1. . No director of the Corporation will have any personal liability to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the DGCL as the same exists or hereafter may be amended. Neither the amendment nor the repeal of this Article VIII shall eliminate or reduce the effect thereof in respect of any matter occurring, or any cause of action, suit or claim that, but for this Article VIII would accrue or arise, prior to such amendment or repeal.
Limited Liability of Directors
 
Section 9.1. . To the fullest extent permitted by the law of the State of Delaware as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, the Corporation shall indemnify any person (and such person's heirs, executors or administrators) who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (brought in the right of the Corporation or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether formal or informal, including appeals, by reason of the fact that such person, or a person for whom such person was the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company, nonprofit entity or other enterprise, for and against all loss and liability suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement reasonably incurred by such person or such heirs, executors or administrators in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person described in such sentence in connection with any action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) by such person was authorized by the Board.
Indemnification
Section 9.2. . To the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Corporation shall promptly pay expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by any person described in Section 9.1 in appearing at, participating in or defending any action, suit or proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals, upon presentation of an undertaking on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article IX or otherwise. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3, the Corporation shall be required to pay expenses of a person described in such sentence in connection with any action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) by such person was authorized by the Board.
Advance of Expenses
Section 9.3. . If a claim for indemnification (following the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding) or advancement of expenses under this Article IX is not paid in full within thirty days after a written claim therefor by any person described in Section 9.1 has been received by the Corporation, such person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that such person is not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under applicable law.
Unpaid Claims
Section 9.4. . To the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person described in Section 9.1 against any liability asserted against such person, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article IX or otherwise.
Insurance
 
Section 9.5. . The provisions of this Article IX shall be applicable to all actions, claims, suits or proceedings made or commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions to act occurring before or after its adoption. The provisions of this Article IX shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer (or legal representative thereof) who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article IX and the relevant provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware and other applicable law, if any, are in effect, and any alteration, amendment, or repeal hereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts or any action, suit or proceeding then or theretofore existing, or any action, suit or proceeding thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part on any such state of facts. If any provision of this Article IX shall be found to be invalid or limited in application by reason of any law or regulation, it shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions hereof. The rights of indemnification provided in this Article IX shall neither be exclusive of, nor be deemed in limitation of, any rights to which any person may otherwise be or become entitled or permitted by contract, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, vote of stockholders or directors or otherwise, or as a matter of law, both as to actions in such person's official capacity and actions in any other capacity, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of any person whom the Corporation is obligated to indemnify pursuant to Section 9.1 shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
Section 9.6. For purposes of this Article IX, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries.
Section 9.7. This Article IX shall not limit the right of the Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to, and purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of, persons other than persons described in Section 9.1.
Section 10.1. . If any provision or provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable as applied to any circumstance for any reason whatsoever: (i) the validity, legality and enforceability of such provisions in any other circumstance and of the remaining provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and (ii) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to permit the Corporation to protect its directors, officers, employees and agents from personal liability in respect of their good faith service to or for the benefit of the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by Noah J. Hanft, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Corporation on September 21, 2010.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
Section 1. The annual meeting of the stockholders of MasterCard Incorporated (the "") for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on such date, and at such time and place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "").
Corporation
Board
Section 2. Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by or at the direction of the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
Section 3. Except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, notice of the time, place (if any), the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting (if such date is different from the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting) and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes of the meeting of stockholders shall be given not more than sixty, nor less than ten, days previous thereto, to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 4. The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation; but if at any meeting of stockholders there shall be less than a quorum present, the chairman of the meeting or the stockholders present may, to the extent permitted by law, adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting of the date, time and place, if any, of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. If after the adjournment a new record date for stockholders entitled to vote is fixed for the adjourned meeting, the Board shall fix a new record date for notice of such adjourned meeting, and shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such adjourned meeting as of the record date for notice of such adjourned meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a separate vote by a class or
 
series or classes or series is required, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or series or classes or series, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter.
Section 5. The Chairman of the Board, or in the Chairman's absence or at the Chairman's direction, the Chief Executive Officer, or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or at the Chief Executive Officer's direction, any officer of the Corporation shall call all meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as chairman of any such meetings. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in such officer's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting. If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise determined by the Board prior to the meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority in his or her discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, convening the meeting and adjourning the meeting (whether or not a quorum is present), imposing restrictions on the persons (other than stockholders of record of the Corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such meeting, whether any stockholder or stockholder's proxy may be excluded from any meeting of stockholders based upon any determination by the chairman of the meeting, in his or her sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings thereat, and the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 6. At all meetings of stockholders, any stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority: (1) a stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy, and execution of the writing may be accomplished by the stockholder or the stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature; or (2) a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspector or inspectors of stockholder votes or, if there are no such inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
DGCL
 
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6. may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Proxies shall be filed with the secretary of the meeting prior to or at the commencement of the meeting to which they relate.
Section 7. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation or applicable law or regulation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required and a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by shares of such class or series or classes or series shall be the act of such class or series or classes or series, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation or applicable law or regulation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Section 8. (A) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If the Board so fixes a date, such date shall also be the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting unless the Board determines, at the time it fixes such record date, that a later date on or before the date of the meeting shall be the date for making such determination. If no record date is fixed by the Board, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , that the Board may fix a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote in accordance herewith at the adjourned meeting.
provided, however
(B)     In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix a record date, which shall not be more than sixty days prior to such other action. If no such record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto.
 
Section 9. At any time when the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation permits action by one or more classes of stockholders of the Corporation to be taken by written consent, the provisions of this section shall apply. All consents properly delivered in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, this section and the DGCL shall be deemed to be recorded when so delivered. No written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty days of the earliest dated consent delivered to the Corporation as required by this section, written consents signed by the holders of a sufficient number of shares to take such corporate action are so recorded. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date for notice of such meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take the action were delivered to the Corporation. Any action taken pursuant to such written consent or consents of the stockholders shall have the same force and effect as if taken by the stockholders at a meeting thereof. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board. If no record date has been fixed by the Board, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board is required by statute, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. If no record date has been fixed by the Board and prior action by the Board is required by statute, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 10. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting (, if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote is less than ten days before the date of the meeting, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote as of the tenth day before the meeting date) showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held
provided, however
 
at a place, then a list of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
Section 11. The Board, in advance of all meetings of the stockholders, shall appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes, who may be employees or agents of the Corporation or stockholders or their proxies, but not directors of the Corporation or candidates for office. In the event that the Board fails to so appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes or, in the event that one or more inspectors of stockholder votes previously designated by the Board fails to appear or act at the meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes to fill such vacancy or vacancies. Inspectors of stockholder votes appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall take and sign an oath to faithfully execute the duties of inspector of stockholder votes with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them. Inspectors of stockholder votes shall, subject to the power of the chairman of the meeting to open and close the polls, take charge of the polls, and, after the voting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken.
Section 12.
 
(i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) delivered pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws, (b) by or at the direction of the Board or any committee thereof or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election or such business at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph (A) of this By-Law and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and, in the case of business other than nominations of persons for election to the Board, such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than twenty days, or delayed by more than seventy days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; and provided further, that for purposes of the application of Rule 14a-4(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
provided
however
 
(the "") (or any successor provision), the date for notice specified in this paragraph (A)(ii) shall be the earlier of the date calculated as hereinbefore provided or the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of Rule 14a-4.
Exchange Act
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected, and a statement affirming that such proposed nominee is qualified to serve as a director of the Corporation under Article II of these By-Laws; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these By-Laws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal and/or the voting of shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation between or among the stockholder giving the notice, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, any of their respective affiliates or associates and/or any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing (collectively, "proponent persons"); and (e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including without limitation any contract to purchase or sell, acquisition or grant of any option, right or warrant to purchase or sell, swap or other instrument) the intent or effect of which may be (i) to transfer to or from any proponent person, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of any security of the Corporation, (ii) to increase or decrease the voting power of any proponent person with respect to shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation and/or (iii) to provide any proponent person, directly or indirectly, with the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from, or to otherwise benefit economically from, any increase or decrease in the value of any security of the Corporation. A stockholder providing notice of a proposed nomination for election to the Board or other business proposed to be brought before a meeting (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (A)(ii) or paragraph (B) of this By-law) shall update and supplement such notice from time to time to the extent necessary so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is 15
 
days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof; such update and supplement shall be delivered in writing to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than 5 days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than 10 days prior to the date for the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof). The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(ii) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least eighty days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which a public announcement of such increase is first made by the Corporation before the meeting; that, if no such announcement is made at least ten days before the meeting, then no such notice shall be required.
provided
 
Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board or (b) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (A)(ii) of this By-Law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the 120
th
day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting.
 
(i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be
 
conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 12, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 12, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(ii) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed or furnished by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(iii) For purposes of this By-Law, no adjournment or postponement or notice of adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Section 12, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 12 to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting.
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law; , that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this By-Law (including paragraphs (A)(i)(c) and (B) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (A)(i)(c) and (B) of this By-Law shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business. Nothing in this By-Law shall apply to the right, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock (as defined in the Corporation's certificate of incorporation) to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation.
provided, however
 
Section 1. The Board shall consist, subject to the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, of such number of directors, not less than three nor more than fifteen, as shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of the majority of the Board.
Section 2. Prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors shall be divided into three classes in the manner set forth in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, each class to be elected for the term set forth therein. A majority of the total number of directors then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of directors constituting the entire Board) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; provided, that a quorum shall not be constituted unless directors who are neither Industry Directors (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) nor officers of the Corporation represent a majority of the directors present. Except as otherwise provided by law, these By-Laws or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board.
Section 3. (A) Except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, or at any time thereafter, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a ""), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 3, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
Contested Election
(B)     In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board for further service on the Board, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, contingent on (a) that person not receiving a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (b) acceptance of that proffered resignation by the Board in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board pursuant to these By-Laws, shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board shall act on the proffered resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The committee in making its recommendation and the Board in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant.
(C)     If the Board accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 3, or if a nominee for director who is not an incumbent director is not elected with a majority of votes in an election that is not a Contested Election, then the Board may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Article II, Section 5 of these By-Laws.
 
Section 4. (A) The Board shall be comprised of directors at least 64% of whom the Board shall have determined are not Industry Directors (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation). Further, the number of directors who are neither Industry Directors nor officers or employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries shall at all times be at least two greater than the number of directors who are either Industry Directors or officers or employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
(B)     A person shall qualify for election and continued service as a director of the Corporation only if the Board shall have determined that such person shall not:
(i) except in the case of an Industry Director or a director who is an officer or employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries (x) be a director, officer, employee or agent of, or represent or otherwise be affiliated with, a Member (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) or Similar Person (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation), (y) have been a director, officer, employee or agent of, or have represented or otherwise been affiliated with, a Member or Similar Person during the prior eighteen (18) months or (z) have any business relationship with a Member or Similar Person that is material to such person;
(ii) be a trustee, officer, employee or agent of, or represent or otherwise be affiliated with, The MasterCard Foundation, or have been a director, officer, employee or agent of, or have represented or otherwise been affiliated with, The MasterCard Foundation during the prior three years or otherwise have any business relationship with The MasterCard Foundation that is material to such person; or
(iii) be a director, regional board director, officer, employee or agent of, or represent (x) an entity that owns and/or operates a payment card program competitive with the Corporation's comparable card programs, as determined in the sole discretion of the Board (a "") or (y) an institution that is represented on any board of a Competitor.
Competitor
If at any time an individual fails to satisfy these qualifications, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, such individual shall automatically, without further action of the director, cease to be a director of the Corporation.
Section 5. Subject to the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, unless otherwise required by law, any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office who are not Industry Directors, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director who is not an Industry Director. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if the Board shall be comprised only of Industry Directors, any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, if any applicable provision of the DGCL expressly confers power on
 
stockholders to fill such a directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes cast thereon by the outstanding shares of the Corporation then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor.
Section 6. The Board shall appoint a director who is neither an Industry Director nor an officer of the Corporation to serve as a liaison between the Board and the board of directors of The MasterCard Foundation (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) for the purpose of coordinating and facilitating communications between The MasterCard Foundation and the Corporation.
Section 7. Meetings of the Board shall be held at such place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the notice of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board and special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, by oral or written notice, including telegraph, telex or transmission of a telecopy, e-mail or other means of electronic transmission, duly served on or sent and delivered to each director to such director's address, e-mail address or telephone or telecopy number as shown on the books of the Corporation not less than 24 hours before the meeting. The notice of any meeting need not specify the purposes thereof. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders at the same place, if any, at which such meeting is held. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board held at times fixed by resolution of the Board. Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall attend such meeting (except when the director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened), or who shall waive notice thereof, before or after such meeting, in writing (including by electronic transmission).
Section 8. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately as a series or separately as a class without one or more such other series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation (including any certificate of designation relating to any series of Preferred Stock) applicable thereto.
Section 9. If at any meeting for the election of directors, the Corporation has outstanding more than one class of stock, and one or more such classes or series thereof are entitled to vote separately as a class to elect directors, and there shall be a quorum of only one such class or series of stock, that class or series of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the other class or series of stock.
 
Section 10. The Board may from time to time establish committees of the Board including, without limitation, an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and a Compensation Committee, to serve at the pleasure of the Board which shall be comprised of such members of the Board and have such duties as the Board shall from time to time establish. Any director may belong to any number of committees of the Board; , , that no more than one-third of the members of any Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall be Industry Directors and; , , that (1) no more than one Industry Director may serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and (2) no Industry Director shall participate in the process of (x) nominating any person to serve as a director of the Corporation or (y) selecting any person to serve as a director of The MasterCard Foundation. The Board may also establish such other committees with such members (whether or not directors) and with such duties as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, the By-Laws or the resolution of the Board designating the committee, a committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the committee, and delegate to a subcommittee any or all of the powers and authority of the committee.
provided
however
provided
further
Section 11. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing (including by electronic transmission), and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board.
Section 12. Each director of the Corporation shall also serve as a director on the Board of MasterCard International Incorporated (""). Any director of the Corporation who shall resign or be removed from his or her position as a director of the Corporation shall automatically, without further action of the director, cease to be a director of MasterCard International.
MasterCard International
Section 13. The members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at such a meeting.
Section 14. The Board may establish policies for the compensation of directors and for the reimbursement of the expenses of directors in connection with services provided by directors to the Corporation.
Section 15. The Board may elect or appoint a Chairman of the Board; , that no Industry Director may serve as Chairman of the Board and; , , that no officer of the Corporation may serve as Chairman of the Board unless such officer's election or appointment to so serve is approved by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board.
provided
provided
further
 
Section 1. The Board, at its next meeting following each annual meeting of the stockholders, shall elect officers of the Corporation, including a President, a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary. The Board may also from time to time elect such other officers (including one or more Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers) as it may deem proper or may delegate to any elected officer of the Corporation the power to appoint and remove any such other officers and to prescribe their respective terms of office, authorities and duties. Any Vice President may be designated Executive, Senior or Corporate, or may be given such other designation or combination of designations as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 2. All officers of the Corporation shall hold office for such terms as may be determined by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or until their respective successors are chosen and qualified. Any officer may be removed from office at any time either with or without cause by the Chief Executive Officer or the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office, or, in the case of appointed officers, by any elected officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board.
Section 3. Each of the officers of the Corporation elected by the Board or appointed by an officer in accordance with these By-Laws shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law, by the By-Laws or by the Board and, in the case of appointed officers, the powers and duties prescribed by the appointing officer, and, unless otherwise prescribed by the By-Laws or by the Board or such appointing officer, shall have such further powers and duties as ordinarily pertain to that office. The Chief Executive Officer shall have authority over the general direction of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 4. Unless otherwise provided in these By-Laws, in the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, the Board may, during such period, delegate such officer's powers and duties to any other officer or to any director and the person to whom such powers and duties are delegated shall, for the time being, hold such office.
Section 5. No officer of the Corporation shall also be a director, officer, agent or representative of a Member.
The books of the Corporation may be kept inside or outside of the State of Delaware at such place or places as the Board may from time to time determine.
 
All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be authorized from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or such other officer or officers who may be delegated such authority by the foregoing. Proxies to vote and consents with respect to securities of other corporations owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or by such officers as the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Board may from time to time determine.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following.
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation. In lieu of the corporate seal, when so authorized by the Board or a duly empowered committee thereof, a facsimile thereof may be impressed or affixed or reproduced.
These By-Laws may be made, amended, altered, changed, added to or repealed at any meeting of the Board or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting of the stockholders or, in the case of a meeting of the Board, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting; , , that, the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board shall be required to alter, change, amend or repeal the second proviso of Article II, Section 15 of these By-Laws or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith and; , , that, notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote of the stockholders, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to make, alter, change, amend, add to or repeal these By-Laws or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
provided
however
provided
further
 


