FILE:MA/MA-8K-20100415170717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") announced on April 12, 2010 that, effective July 1, 2010, Ajay Banga, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and its principal operating subsidiary, MasterCard International Incorporated ("MasterCard International" and, collectively with the Company, "MasterCard"), has been appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to serve as the President and Chief Executive Officer of MasterCard. The Company also announced that, effective April 12, 2010, Mr. Banga was elected to serve as a director on the Company's Board of Directors (which was increased to thirteen members).
Mr. Banga will succeed Robert W. Selander, MasterCard's current Chief Executive Officer. Effective July 1, 2010, Mr. Selander will serve as Executive Vice Chairman of MasterCard until his retirement on December 31, 2010. Mr. Selander will also continue to serve as a director on the Company's Board of Directors until January 1, 2011.
A copy of the press release, issued by the Company on April 12, 2010 and announcing these developments, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Banga's Offer Letter
In connection with Mr. Banga becoming President and Chief Executive Officer of MasterCard, the Company entered into an offer letter with Mr. Banga, dated April 12, 2010 (the "Offer Letter"). The Offer Letter references the developments described above and sets forth a summary of modifications to both Mr. Banga's existing employment agreement with MasterCard International, dated June 16, 2009 (the "Existing Agreement"), and his initial offer letter from MasterCard International, dated June 15, 2009. MasterCard anticipates entering into an amended and restated employment agreement with Mr. Banga which would supersede the Existing Agreement and incorporate these modifications.
Compensation
.
The Offer Letter provides that Mr. Banga's base salary will be increased from $800,000 to $900,000.
Incentive Awards and Other Benefits
.
Consistent with the terms of the Existing Agreement, Mr. Banga will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Senior Executive Annual Incentive Compensation Plan. His target pay out will continue to be 150% of his base salary, with a revised target amount of $1,350,000.
MasterCard anticipates that Mr. Banga's perquisite allowance, which he receives in the form of a fixed dollar amount in lieu of specific perquisites pursuant to MasterCard International's executive perquisite program, will be increased from $35,000 (less lawful deductions) in 2010 to $45,000 (less lawful deductions) in 2011. Consistent with the terms of the Existing Employment Agreement, the allowance is subject to review on an annual basis by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
On July 1, 2010, Mr. Banga will be granted a one-time award in the amount of 12,000 restricted stock units under the 2006 MasterCard Incorporated Long Term Incentive Plan. The restricted stock units will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
Additionally, as of July 1, 2010, Mr. Banga will also have use of an executive car service based upon the business requirements of his position. If Mr. Banga uses the service for commutation purposes, he will be required to track such usage and will be responsible for tax purposes in connection with such use.
The foregoing descriptions of Mr. Banga's Offer Letter do not purport to be complete descriptions and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Offer Letter, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Biographical and related party transaction information with respect to Mr. Banga is provided under the heading "Background and Other Information Regarding Ajaypal Banga" in Item 5.02 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 19, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Selander Transition
Mr. Selander entered into a transition letter with the Company, dated April 12, 2010, which, among other things and consistent with the terms of his current employment agreement with MasterCard International dated December 31, 2008, confirms the dates of his transition to Executive Vice Chairman, retirement from the Company and resignation from the Board of Directors and confirms that Mr. Selander will assist Mr. Banga in his transition as President and Chief Executive Officer through and including December 31, 2010. This letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On April 12, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to, and restated, the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"). The change effected by the adoption of the Amended and Restated Bylaws was to technically conform to changes previously made to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation on June 10, 2009, following a stockholder vote at its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, to reflect an increase to the potential maximum size of the Board of Directors of the Company to fifteen directors. The Amended and Restated Bylaws became effective on April 12, 2010.
A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Section 1. The annual meeting of the stockholders of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Corporation") for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on such date, and at such time and place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board").
Section 2. Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by or at the direction of the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
Section 3. Except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, notice of the time, place (if any) and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes of the meeting of stockholders shall be given not more than sixty, nor less than ten, days previous thereto, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 4. The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation; but if at any meeting of stockholders there shall be less than a quorum present, the chairman of the meeting or the stockholders present may, to the extent permitted by law, adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting of the date, time and place, if any, of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if, after the adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or series or classes or series, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter.
Section 5. The Chairman of the Board, or in the Chairman's absence or at the Chairman's direction, the Chief Executive Officer, or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or
 
Effective as of April 12, 2010
at the Chief Executive Officer's direction, any officer of the Corporation shall call all meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as chairman of any such meetings. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in such officer's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting. If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise determined by the Board prior to the meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority in his or her discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, convening the meeting and adjourning the meeting (whether or not a quorum is present), imposing restrictions on the persons (other than stockholders of record of the Corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such meeting, whether any stockholder or stockholder's proxy may be excluded from any meeting of stockholders based upon any determination by the chairman of the meeting, in his or her sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings thereat, and the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 6. At all meetings of stockholders, any stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority: (1) a stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy, and execution of the writing may be accomplished by the stockholder or the stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature; or (2) a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspector or inspectors of stockholder votes or, if there are no such inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
 
Proxies shall be filed with the secretary of the meeting prior to or at the commencement of the meeting to which they relate.
Section 7. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation or applicable law or regulation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required and a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by shares of such class or series or classes or series shall be the act of such class or series or classes or series, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation or applicable law or regulation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Section 8. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders (a) entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or (b) entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date (i) in the case of clause (a) above, shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting and (ii) in the case of clause (b) above, shall not be more than sixty days prior to such action. If for any reason the Board shall not have fixed a record date for any such purpose, the record date for such purpose shall be determined as provided by law. Only those stockholders of record on the date so fixed or determined shall be entitled to any of the foregoing rights, notwithstanding the transfer of any such stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date so fixed or determined.
Section 9. At any time when the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation permits action by one or more classes of stockholders of the Corporation to be taken by written consent, the provisions of this section shall apply. All consents properly delivered in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, this section and the DGCL shall be deemed to be recorded when so delivered. No written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated consent delivered to the Corporation as required by this section, written consents signed by the holders of a sufficient number of shares to take such corporate action are so recorded. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date of the meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take the action were delivered to the Corporation. Any action taken pursuant to such written consent or consents of the stockholders shall have the same force and effect as if taken by the
 
stockholders at a meeting thereof. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board. If no record date has been fixed by the Board, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board is required by statute, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. If no record date has been fixed by the Board and prior action by the Board is required by statute, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 10. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
Section 11. The Board, in advance of all meetings of the stockholders, shall appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes, who may be employees or agents of the Corporation or stockholders or their proxies, but not directors of the Corporation or candidates for office. In the event that the Board fails to so appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes or, in the event that one or more inspectors of stockholder votes previously designated by the Board fails to appear or act at the meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes to fill such vacancy or vacancies. Inspectors of stockholder votes appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall take and sign an oath to faithfully execute the duties of inspector of stockholder votes with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them. Inspectors of stockholder votes shall, subject to the power of the chairman of the meeting to open and close the polls, take charge of the polls, and, after the voting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken.
 
Section 12.
(A)
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board or to the European Board (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) delivered pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws, (b) by or at the direction of the Board or any committee thereof or, in the case of nominations of persons for election to the European Board only, the European Board or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election or such business at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph (A) of this By-Law and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and, in the case of business other than nominations of persons for election to the Board, such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than twenty days, or delayed by more than seventy days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; , that for purposes of the application of Rule 14a-4(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") (or any successor provision), the date for notice specified in this paragraph (A)(ii) shall be the earlier of the date calculated as hereinbefore provided or the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of Rule 14a-4.
provided
however
and provided further
Exchange Act
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director or as a member of the European Board all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director or as a member of the European Board if elected, and a statement affirming that such proposed nominee is qualified to serve as a director or as a member of the European Board of the Corporation under Article II of these By-Laws; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of
 
the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these By-Laws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal and/or the voting of shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation between or among the stockholder giving the notice, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, any of their respective affiliates or associates and/or any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing (collectively, "proponent persons"); and (e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including without limitation any contract to purchase or sell, acquisition or grant of any option, right or warrant to purchase or sell, swap or other instrument) the intent or effect of which may be (i) to transfer to or from any proponent person, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of any security of the Corporation, (ii) to increase or decrease the voting power of any proponent person with respect to shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation and/or (iii) to provide any proponent person, directly or indirectly, with the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from, or to otherwise benefit economically from, any increase or decrease in the value of any security of the Corporation. A stockholder providing notice of a proposed nomination for election to the Board or to the European Board or other business proposed to be brought before a meeting (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (A)(ii) or paragraph (B) of this By-law) shall update and supplement such notice from time to time to the extent necessary so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof; such update and supplement shall be delivered in writing to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than 5 days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than 10 days prior to the date for the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof). The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(ii) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board
 
of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least eighty days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which a public announcement of such increase is first made by the Corporation before the meeting; provided that, if no such announcement is made at least ten days before the meeting, then no such notice shall be required.
(B)
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board or to the European Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board or, with respect to nominations of persons for election to the European Board only, by or at the direction of the European Board or (b) provided that the Board or the European Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote on such election at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board or to the European Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (A)(ii) of this By-Law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the 120
th
day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting.
(C)
General.
(i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as directors or as members of the European Board and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions
 
of this Section 12, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 12, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(ii) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed or furnished by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(iii) For purposes of this By-Law, no adjournment or postponement or notice of adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Section 12, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 12 to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting.
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law; provided however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this By-Law (including paragraphs (A)(i)(c) and (B) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (A)(i)(c) and (B) of this By-Law shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business. Nothing in this By-Law shall apply to the right, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or of Class M Common Stock (in each case, as defined in the Corporation's certificate of incorporation) to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation.
Section 1. The Board shall consist, subject to the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, of such number of directors, not less than three nor more than fifteen, as shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of the majority of the Board. The Board may also appoint one person, who has previously served on the Board of the Corporation and who is not a director, officer or employee of, and does not represent, a Member (as defined in the Corporation's certificate of incorporation), to participate in the deliberations of the Board of the Corporation in a non-voting, advisory capacity.
 
Section 2. Commencing with the election of directors at the first annual meeting following the filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the directors shall be divided into three classes in the manner set forth in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, each class to be elected for the term set forth therein. No more than one Class M Director shall be allocated to any single class of directors. Directors shall (except as hereinafter provided for the filling of vacancies and newly created directorships) be elected by the holders of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of such directors. A majority of the total number of directors then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of directors constituting the entire Board) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; , that a quorum shall not be constituted unless directors who are neither Class M Directors nor officers of the Corporation represent a majority of the directors present. Except as otherwise provided by law, these By-Laws or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board. Directors need not be stockholders.
provided
Section 3. Subject to the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, unless otherwise required by law, any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office who are not Class M Directors, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director who is not a Class M Director; , that any newly created directorship on the Board that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director if (a) the Board shall be comprised only of Class M Directors or (b) such newly created directorship or such vacancy relates to a Class M directorship. If any applicable provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a directorship (other than a Class M directorship) at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes cast thereon by the outstanding shares of the Corporation then entitled to vote at an election of directors (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include shares of Class M Common Stock), voting together as a single class. If any applicable provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a Class M directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes cast thereon by the outstanding shares of Class M Common Stock, voting separately as a class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor.
provided
Section 4. The Board shall appoint a director elected by the holders of the Class A Common Stock of the Corporation who is neither a Class M Director nor an officer of the Corporation to serve as a liaison between the Board and the board of directors of The
 
MasterCard Foundation (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) for the purpose of coordinating and facilitating communications between The MasterCard Foundation and the Corporation.
Section 5. Meetings of the Board shall be held at such place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the notice of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board and special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, by oral or written notice, including telegraph, telex or transmission of a telecopy, e-mail or other means of electronic transmission, duly served on or sent and delivered to each director to such director's address, e-mail address or telephone or telecopy number as shown on the books of the Corporation not less than 24 hours before the meeting. The notice of any meeting need not specify the purposes thereof. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders at the same place, if any, at which such meeting is held. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board held at times fixed by resolution of the Board. Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall attend such meeting (except when the director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened), or who shall waive notice thereof, before or after such meeting, in writing (including by electronic transmission).
Section 6. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately as a series or separately as a class without one or more such other series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation (including any certificate of designation relating to any series of Preferred Stock) applicable thereto.
Section 7. If at any meeting for the election of directors, the Corporation has outstanding more than one class of stock, and one or more such classes or series thereof are entitled to vote separately as a class to elect directors, and there shall be a quorum of only one such class or series of stock, that class or series of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the other class or series of stock.
Section 8. The Board may from time to time establish committees of the Board including, without limitation, an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and a Compensation Committee, to serve at the pleasure of the Board which shall be comprised of such members of the Board and have such duties as the Board shall from time to time establish. Any director may belong to any number of committees of the Board; , , that no more than one Class M Director may serve on the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and;, that no Class M Director shall (1) participate in the process of nominating any person to serve as a director of the Corporation
provided
however
provided, further
 
unless such person is being nominated to serve as a Class M Director or is the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or (2) participate in the process of selecting any person to serve as a director of The MasterCard Foundation. The Board may also establish such other committees with such members (whether or not directors) and with such duties as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, the By-Laws or the resolution of the Board designating the committee, a committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the committee, and delegate to a subcommittee any or all of the powers and authority of the committee.
Section 9. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing (including by electronic transmission), and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board.
Section 10. The members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at such a meeting.
Section 11. The Board may establish policies for the compensation of directors and members of the European Board and for the reimbursement of the expenses of directors and members of the European Board, in each case, in connection with services provided by directors and members of the European Board to the Corporation.
Section 12. In order to qualify for the election and continued service as a director of the Corporation, each director of the Corporation shall also serve as a director on the Board of MasterCard International Incorporated (""). Any director of the Corporation who shall resign or be removed from his or her position as a director of the MasterCard International shall automatically, without further action of the director, cease to be a director of the Corporation.
MasterCard International
Section 13. The Board may elect or appoint a Chairman of the Board; , that no Class M Director may serve as Chairman of the Board and; , that no officer of the Corporation may serve as Chairman of the Board unless such officer's election or appointment to so serve is approved by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board.
provided
provided, further
 
Section 1. The European Board shall consist of such number of persons, not less than twelve nor more than 25, as shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of the majority of the European Board. The members of the Corporation's Europe regional board of directors at the Filing Time (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation) who qualify for service as a member of the European Board shall constitute the initial members of the European Board. Commencing with the First Annual Meeting (as defined in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation), members of the European Board shall (except as hereinafter provided for the filling of vacancies and newly created memberships) be elected by the European Class M Holders, voting for such purpose as a separate class. Notwithstanding the preceding three sentences of this Section 1, any Class M Director who is allocated to the Corporation's Europe region pursuant to Section 6.4(A) of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation shall automatically, without any vote, become a member of the European Board, and the number of members of the European Board shall automatically be adjusted to include any such Class M Director if the number of members of the European Board would otherwise exceed the number fixed by the European Board.
Section 2. A majority of the total number of members of the European Board then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of members of the European Board constituting the entire European Board) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as otherwise provided these By-Laws or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, the act of a majority of the members of the European Board present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the European Board.
Section 3. Subject to the final sentence of Section 1 of this Article III, newly created memberships in the European Board that result from an increase in the number of members of the European Board and any vacancy occurring in the European Board may be filled only by the European Board; and the members so chosen shall hold office for a term as set forth in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation.
Section 4. Meetings of the European Board shall be held at such place, if any, as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the European Board or as may be specified in the notice of any meeting. Regular meetings of the European Board shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the European Board and special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the European Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, by oral or written notice, including telegraph, telex or transmission of a telecopy, e-mail or other means of electronic transmission, duly served on or sent and delivered to each member of the European Board to such member's address, e-mail address or telephone or telecopy number as shown on the books of the Corporation not less than 24 hours before the meeting. The notice of any meeting need not specify the purposes thereof. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the European Board held at times fixed by resolution of the European Board. Notice of any meeting need not be given to any member who shall attend such meeting (except when the member attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened), or who shall waive notice thereof, before or after such meeting, in writing (including by electronic transmission).
 
Section 5. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the European Board may be taken without a meeting if all members of the European Board consent thereto in writing (including by electronic transmission), and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the European Board.
Section 6. The members of the European Board may participate in a meeting of such European Board by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at such a meeting.
Section 1. The Board, at its next meeting following each annual meeting of the stockholders, shall elect officers of the Corporation, including a President, a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary. The Board may also from time to time elect such other officers (including one or more Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers) as it may deem proper or may delegate to any elected officer of the Corporation the power to appoint and remove any such other officers and to prescribe their respective terms of office, authorities and duties. Any Vice President may be designated Executive, Senior or Corporate, or may be given such other designation or combination of designations as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 2. All officers of the Corporation shall hold office for such terms as may be determined by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or until their respective successors are chosen and qualified. Any officer may be removed from office at any time either with or without cause by the Chief Executive Officer or the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office, or, in the case of appointed officers, by any elected officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board.
Section 3. Each of the officers of the Corporation elected by the Board or appointed by an officer in accordance with these By-Laws shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law, by the By-Laws or by the Board and, in the case of appointed officers, the powers and duties prescribed by the appointing officer, and, unless otherwise prescribed by the By-Laws or by the Board or such appointing officer, shall have such further powers and duties as ordinarily pertain to that office. The Chief Executive Officer shall have authority over the general direction of the affairs of the Corporation.
 
Section 4. Unless otherwise provided in these By-Laws, in the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, the Board may, during such period, delegate such officer's powers and duties to any other officer or to any director and the person to whom such powers and duties are delegated shall, for the time being, hold such office.
Section 5. No officer of the Corporation shall also be a director, officer, agent or representative of a Member.
The books of the Corporation may be kept inside or outside of the State of Delaware at such place or places as the Board may from time to time determine.
All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be authorized from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or such other officer or officers who may be delegated such authority by the foregoing. Proxies to vote and consents with respect to securities of other corporations owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or by such officers as the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Board may from time to time determine.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following.
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation. In lieu of the corporate seal, when so authorized by the Board or a duly empowered committee thereof, a facsimile thereof may be impressed or affixed or reproduced.
These By-Laws may be made, amended, altered, changed, added to or repealed at any meeting of the Board or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was
 
given in the notice of the meeting of the stockholders or, in the case of a meeting of the Board, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting; , that, the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board shall be required to alter, change, amend or repeal the second proviso of Article II, Section 13 of these By-Laws or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith and; , that, notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote of the stockholders, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% in voting power of all shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to make, alter, change, amend, add to or repeal these By-Laws or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
provided, however
provided, further
 

Exhibit 10.1
Richard Haythornthwaite
Chairman
MasterCard Worldwide
2000 Purchase Street
Purchase, NY 10577-2509
tel. 1-914-249-2000
www.mastercard.com
Mr. Ajaypal Banga
Dear Ajay:
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to offer you the position of President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of MasterCard International Incorporated and MasterCard Incorporated, effective July 1, 2010. In addition, we are delighted with your election to the Company's Board of Directors, effective immediately.
The terms of the Company's offer include modifications to your existing employment agreement which are summarized in the attached schedule. Following receipt of your counter-signature in the space provided below, indicating your acceptance of the Company's offer, we anticipate entering into a new employment agreement with you. The new agreement would supersede your existing agreement and set forth, in detail, the terms of the Company's offer summarized in the attached schedule.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to express our tremendous optimism for the future of the Company under your leadership. We are impressed with your strong performance to date and look forward to working with you during this important period of transition for the Company.
 
 
SCHEDULE OF TERMS MODIFYING EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN AJAYPAL BANGA AND MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED, DATED JUNE 16, 2009 AND OFFER LETTER DATED JUNE 15, 2009
Subject to your acceptance of the offer, as set forth in the accompanying letter, dated April 12, 2010, the following modifications will be made, effective July 1, 2010, to the current terms and conditions of your employment:
1. Your base salary will be increased from $800,000 to $900,000.
2. Your target bonus, as a percentage of your salary, will remain at 150%, with a revised target amount of $1,350,000.
3. Your perquisite allowance is subject to review each year by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. It is anticipated that your perquisite allowance will increase from $35,000 in 2010 to $45,000 in 2011.
4. Upon your promotion to the position of Chief Executive Officer on July 1, 2010, you will be granted a one-time Long Term Incentive award of 12,000 Restricted Stock Units ("RSU's"), subject to the terms and conditions of the MasterCard Incorporated Long-Term Incentive Plan and the award agreement. These RSU's will have a four year cliff vesting schedule. Further details will be contained in the award agreement provided to you at the time of the grant.
5. Based upon business requirements of this position, you will, as of July 1, 2010, have the use of an executive car service. Should you avail yourself of this service for commutation, you will be required to track usage and will be responsible for tax purposes. Further details concerning the external company car service will be provided to you in a separate communication.

Exhibit 10.2
Richard Haythornthwaite
Chairman
MasterCard Worldwide
2000 Purchase Street
Purchase, NY 10577-2509
tel. 1-914-249-2000
www.mastercard.com
Mr. Robert W. Selander
Re: Transition
Dear Bob:
Ajay Banga has accepted the position of President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") to succeed you, effective July 1, 2010. The Company believes it will be beneficial for all concerned to confirm the circumstances, terms and conditions under which Ajay's transition to CEO and your transition to retirement will be made.
In that regard, as a result of the implementation of the planned transition of your position to Ajay, effective July 1, 2010, your title will change to Executive Vice Chairman. You will retain your position on the Board of Directors of MasterCard Incorporated, MasterCard International Incorporated and any subsidiary entities through December 31, 2010. By your countersignature below, you agree to resign your position on the Board of Directors of MasterCard Incorporated, MasterCard International Incorporated and any subsidiary entities, effective January 1, 2011.
In accordance with Section 2.2 of the Employment Agreement between you and the Company, dated December 31, 2008 ("Employment Agreement"), this change will not be accompanied by any reduction in your compensation, benefit or perquisite entitlements, or, prior to December 15, 2010, status as a member of the Executive Committee ("EC") and senior level Executive of the Company. However, in accordance with Section 2.2 of your Employment Agreement, on December 15, 2010, you will resign your positions as a senior executive officer and a member of the EC. Following such resignations, you will not engage in any policy making functions or other duties as an officer on behalf of the Company. However, your resignations from those positions will not preclude you from otherwise remaining employed by the Company following the resignations in a non-policy making, non-officer position through December 31, 2010.
In accordance with Section 9.1 of your Employment Agreement, subject to your continued employment as set forth in Section 9.1.1 of your Employment Agreement and your execution (without revocation, following the passage of the applicable seven (7) day
revocation period) of a release substantially in the form annexed as Exhibit B to your Employment Agreement (a copy of which is attached to this letter for your convenient reference), the Company has agreed to pay you, in a lump sum, 10 million dollars ($10,000,000), less any payroll deductions required by law ( the "Retention Payment"), not later than July 31, 2010. Furthermore, in accordance with Section 9.1 of your Employment Agreement, as Ajay has been appointed to succeed you as CEO prior to December 31, 2010, you will be assisting him in his transition through and including December 31, 2010.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to express our sincere gratitude for your visionary leadership and exemplary service to the Company during your 13-year tenure as CEO. Among so many other contributions, we truly admire your outstanding accomplishments in leading MasterCard in its evolution from a membership organization to a New York Stock Exchange listed company with a majority independent Board. We look forward to your continued assistance and stable influence during this exciting period of change.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced that Ajay Banga, currently MasterCard's president and chief operating officer, has been named by the Board of Directors to serve as the company's president and chief executive officer, effective July 1, 2010. The company also announced that Banga has become a member of MasterCard's Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Purchase, NY, April 12, 2010
Banga, 50, will succeed Robert W. Selander, who has been MasterCard's chief executive officer since March 1997. Following the transition, Selander, 59, will serve as the company's executive vice chairman and continue to serve as a member of the company's Board of Directors through the date of his retirement on December 31, 2010.
Under Selander's leadership, MasterCard evolved from a 40-year-old membership association to become an NYSE listed public company on May 25, 2006. In 2009, cited Selander's management as a critical reason behind its decision to rank MasterCard first in the 500  a ranking which assesses operating performance among the 500 largest public companies in the U.S. and Canada. The company was also ranked number 10 in in 2009.
Barron's
Barron's
BusinessWeek's Top 50 Companies
"Bob is a true visionary  responsible for the transformation of MasterCard into one of the world's leading companies, and instrumental in shaping today's payments industry," said Richard Haythornthwaite, chairman, MasterCard Board of Directors. "We are extremely thankful for his 13 years of leadership as CEO, and look forward to his continued guidance as executive vice chairman.
"We are fortunate to announce the transition to a leader with Ajay's expertise and experience. His industry knowledge, as well as his deep background in financial services encompassing many geographies, makes him the ideal CEO to successfully drive MasterCard's future growth," concluded Haythornthwaite.
"Bob is a tremendous professional and I consider myself fortunate to have worked closely with him over the past several months," said Banga, who joined MasterCard on August 31, 2009. "I am grateful for the opportunity to lead MasterCard at a time when the global opportunity for electronic payments has never been stronger."
MasterCard Worldwide  Page 2
MasterCard Names Ajay Banga President and Chief Executive Officer Succeeding Robert W. Selander
"Since joining MasterCard in late August 2009, Ajay has demonstrated extraordinary leadership and insight, and I know he is the ideal candidate to lead MasterCard moving forward," said Selander. "As a company doing business in 210 countries and territories, MasterCard and its customers will benefit from Ajay's unique global perspective."
Prior to joining MasterCard, Banga spent 13 years at Citigroup from 1996, and held a variety of senior management roles in the United States and Europe, Middle East, Africa regions before becoming chairman and chief executive officer of Citi's international global consumer group in 2005. He was also responsible for Citi's brand and marketing work across the entire company. Most recently, he was chief executive officer of Citi Asia Pacific, responsible for all of the company's business lines in the region, including institutional banking, alternative investments, wealth management, consumer banking and credit cards. He was also a member of Citi's senior leadership and executive committees.
Beginning his business career with Nestle in 1981, Banga spent the next 13 years in a variety of assignments spanning sales, marketing, and general management. He later joined Pepsico and was instrumental in the launch of its international fast food franchises in India as the economy liberalized.
Banga serves on the board of Kraft Foods Inc. In addition, he is on the board of trustees of the Asia Society, is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, The Financial Services Roundtable and The Economic Club of New York, and is a fellow of the Foreign Policy Association.
Banga was vice chairman of the board of trustees of the New York Hall of Science and a board member of the National Urban League. He was formerly a business sponsor of Citi's African heritage network  NYC. Banga has a keen interest in social development issues, and over the period from 2005 to mid-2009, he spearheaded Citi's strategy in the microfinance sector across the world.
Banga graduated with a B.A. in Economics Honors from Delhi University and is an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
Selander joined MasterCard in 1994, as executive vice president of the company's Europe, Middle East/Africa and Canada regions. Before joining MasterCard, Selander spent 20 years with Citicorp/Citibank, N.A. where he was responsible for several consumer businesses operating in North America and Europe.
Contacts
:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, 1.914.249.4565,
investor_relations@mastercard.com
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, 1.914.249.5826,
chris_monteiro@mastercard.com


