FILE:MA/MA-8K-20100915080733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 15, 2010, MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") will host a meeting for members of the investment community. As part of discussions at the meeting, the Company is providing the following 2011-2013 longer-term performance objectives (each on a constant currency basis):
 
 
 
In addition, presentation materials for the meeting are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The descriptions of long-term performance objectives set forth above and all information set forth in the attached presentation materials is furnished but not filed.
 
On September 14, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has approved a program to repurchase up to $1 billion of shares of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.0001. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 MasterCard Incorporated (NYSE:MA) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.0 billion of its Class A common stock in open market transactions. The share repurchase authorization is effective immediately.
Purchase, NY, September 14, 2010
"We're very pleased with the Board's approval of this new share repurchase program," said Ajay Banga, MasterCard's president and chief executive officer. "This stock repurchase program is the result of a periodic review of our capital structure, and is enabled by MasterCard's strong and consistent cash flow. It is an important way of returning cash to our shareholders while allowing us the flexibility to pursue our business strategy."
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release which are not historical facts, including statements about MasterCard's plans, strategies, beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking and subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Accordingly, except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws, the company does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking information to reflect actual results of operations, changes in financial condition, changes in estimates, expectations or assumptions, changes in general economic or industry conditions or other circumstances arising and/or existing since the preparation of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements relating to the manner, timing and amount of purchases by MasterCard pursuant to its share repurchase program dependent upon price and market conditions.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including those set forth in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed with the SEC during 2010, as well as reasons including difficulties, delays or the inability of the company to achieve its strategic initiatives set forth above. Factors other than those listed above could also cause the company's results to differ materially from expected results.
About MasterCard Worldwide
MasterCard Worldwide advances global commerce by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, businesses, cardholders and merchants worldwide. As a franchisor, processor and advisor, MasterCard develops and markets payment solutions,
MasterCard Worldwide Announces Share Repurchase Program  Page 2
 
processes over 22 billion transactions each year, and provides industry-leading analysis and consulting services to financial-institution customers and merchants. Powered by the MasterCard Worldwide Network and through its family of brands, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, MasterCard serves consumers and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. For more information go to . Follow us on Twitter: .
www.mastercard.com
@mastercardnews
 
 
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Barbara Gasper, , 914-249-4565
investor_relations@mastercard.com
Media Relations: Chris Monteiro, , 914-249-5826
chris_monteiro@mastercard.com


