FILE:MA/MA-8K-20110607152335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2011 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of MasterCard Incorporated (the "Company") was held on June 7, 2011. Only holders of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 ("Class A common stock"), at the close of business on April 13, 2011 (the "Record Date") were entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. A total of 100,420,961 shares of Class A common stock, constituting a quorum, were represented in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting. The votes cast with respect to the matters voted upon at the Annual Meeting are set forth below:
1. The holders of Class A common stock re-elected the following four director nominees to serve on the Company's Board of Directors as directors for a one-year term expiring on the date of the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders:
 
2. The holders of Class A common stock approved the compensation of MasterCard's named executive officers on an advisory basis:
 
 
3. The following votes were cast by holders of Class A common stock with respect to the advisory vote on how frequently to hold an advisory vote to approve executive compensation:
 
In light of the voting results on this advisory proposal, and consistent with the Company's Board of Directors' recommendation, the Board has determined that the Company will hold an advisory vote on executive compensation on an annual basis.
4. The holders of Class A common stock ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for 2011:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


