FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20041223135240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
   
December 17, 2004
 1-44
   
        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
41- 012915
(Commission File Number)       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
 
  4666 Faries Parkway
   
   
  
         
Decatur,Illinois 
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
62526
 
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
   
 
 
(Zip Code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01
   
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 17, 2004, the Compensation/Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the "Company") adopted the ADM Deferred Compensation Plan for Selected Management Employees II (As Adopted As Of December 1, 2004) (the "Deferred Compensation Plan II") and the ADM Supplemental Retirement Plan II (As Adopted As Of December 1, 2004) (the "SERP II," and together with the Deferred Compensation Plan II, the "Plans"). The Plans are intended to comply with the requirements imposed under new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") (as added by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("Jobs Act")), and the provisions of the Plans will be construed i n a manner consistent with the requirements of such section of the Code. The Company intends to amend the Plans, to the extent necessary, to comply with guidance that the United States Department of Treasury is expected to issue with respect to Section 409A of the Code.
The obligations of the Company under the Plans are unsecured general obligations to pay in the future the balance of the deferred compensation accounts or accrued benefits, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of the Plans.
Certain highly compensated and management employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan II.
The Deferred Compensation Plan II allows eligible employee participants to annually defer between 5% and 75% of their base salary on a pre-tax basis. Deferred amounts are credited to the participants' accounts and the accounts are credited with earnings based on one or more benchmark funds offered under the Deferred Compensation Plan II. Participants can set up to five scheduled distribution accounts. Each scheduled distribution account will be paid in a lump-sum in January of the year designated by the participant. With respect to one of the s cheduled distribution accounts, a participant can elect to receive installments over a period of up to 5 years instead of a lump-sum. Participants can further defer the payment by making a deferral election at least 12 months prior to the scheduled payment, provided the new payment year is at least five years after the scheduled payment year. Participants can also elect to have any scheduled distribution accounts paid six months after termination of employment (or in January of the year following termination, if later) if that such termination occurs before the scheduled payment dates. Participants can also set up a retirement account that results in a lump-sum or installment payments, as elected by the participant, to be paid six months after retirement (or in January of the year following retirement, if later).
 
Certain highly compensated employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the SERP II. Employees who become eligible after December 31, 2004, must enroll in the SERP II during the 30 day period following notification of eligibility. Participants become vested in their supplemental retirement benefits if the participant is vested in his or her interest in the Company's qualified retirement plan. Vested participants will be entitled to receive a benefit after termination calculated in accordance with the SERP II. The payments will begin on the later of the first day of the month beginning six months after the participant's separation from service or the first day the participant could elect to receive his or her pension under the qualified retirement p lan and will be paid in the form of either a life annuity, which results in monthly payments to the participant during his or her life, or a joint and survivor annuity, which results in monthly payments to the participant during his or her life and then to the participant's designated beneficiary after the participant dies.
Also on December 17, 2004,
the Compensation/Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted amendments to the Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Amended and Restated Stock Unit Plan For Nonemployee Directors (the "Director Plan"). The Director Plan provides a means for nonemployee directors on the Company's Board of Directors to receive part or all of their compensation in the form of stock units. The amendments to the Director Plan modify the ability of participants to extend the day of payment under the stock units in order to comply with the Jobs Act. Under the Director Plan, as amended and restated, participants must make an election to extend the payment date at least 12 months prior to the previously scheduled payment date and the new payment date must be at least 5 years after the previously scheduled payment date unless the election to extend is received by the benefits committee prior to the calendar year in which the stock unit award is made.
 
Item 1.02
   
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
.
Effective December 31, 2004, the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for Selected Management Employees
I (As Amended and Restated Effective September 1, 2001), as amended
, which is the predecessor plan to the Deferred Compensation Plan II, was suspended with respect to new deferrals; however, such plan will continue to operate for the purpose of administering amounts deferred and vested under such plan on or prior to December 31, 2004.
Effective December 31, 2004, the Archer Daniels Midland Supp lemental Retirement Plan I (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1994), as amended, which is the predecessor plan to the SERP II, was suspended with respect to additional benefits; however, such plan will continue to operate for the purpose of administering benefits accrued under such plan on or prior to December 31, 2004.
 
Item 9.01
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
   
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
   
 
     
Date: December 23, 2004
      
   
   
   
   
   
By:
/s/ David J. Smith
   
&nb sp;  
   
   
  Name: David J. Smith
   
   
 
  Title:
   
   
 
 
Executive Vice President, Secretary and
  General Counsel
   
   
   
M1:1165896.01
 
 

 
                    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
(1)
   
Any acquisition directly from ADM;
For purposes of this definition, a "person" means a person within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), "beneficial ownership" means beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, and "subsidiary" of ADM means any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having general voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by ADM.
If a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to satisfying the conditions specified above for a Disability, the provisions of the Plan relating to Separation from Service (or Retirement, if applicable) will apply with respect to the Participant, and not the provisions relating to Disability.
The ADM Board of Directors (or its Compensation Committee), or the ADM Chief Executive Officer (in each case acting in a corporate capacity), in its/his/her sole and absolute discretion, may determine that an Employee described above will not be an Eligible Employee, or may determine that an Employee not described above will be an Eligible Employee. However, the Plan is intended to cover only those Employees who are in
a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of ERISA  201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1); and, accordingly, if any interpretation is issued by the Department of Labor that would exclude any Employee from satisfying that requirement, such Employee immediately wi ll cease to be in the Eligible Employee.
If one-third (1/3
rd
) of the Participants, separately or together, provide a written statement to ADM that, in their good faith opinion, a Potential Change in Control has occurred, then a Potential Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred for purposes of this Plan unless ADM, within ten (10) business days after such statement has been received from the Participants, provides the Participants with an opinion of a nationally or regionally recognized law firm that a Potential Change in Control has not occurred for purposes of the Plan.
For purposes of this definition, a "person" means a person within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act.
2.1.19 "
Prior Plan
" means the ADM Deferred Compensation Plan for Selected Management Employees I, as amended.
2.1.23 "
Termination of Employment
" means that the common-law employer-employee relationship has ended between the individual and ADM and its Affiliates, as determined under the employment policies and practices of ADM (including by reason of voluntary or involuntary termination, retirement, death, failure to
 
   return from a recognized leave of absence, etc.). For an Employee working for an Affiliate, a termination of employment will occur upon sale of the stock of such employer such that it no longer satisfies the definition of an Affiliate (assuming he/she continues in the employ of that employer or a new affiliate of that employer after the sale). A termination of employment does not occur merely as a result of transfer of employment from one Affiliate to another Affiliate, or from ADM to an Affiliate or from an Affiliate to ADM.
   
Enrollment is required and must be made in such manner and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed for this purpose by ADM (including by means of a voice response or other electronic sy
stem under circumstances authorized by ADM).
An election (or the modification or revocation of an election) must be made in such manner and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed for this purpose by ADM (including by means of a voice response or other electronic system under circumstances authorized by ADM). An election must be made as part of enrollment described in Section 3.1.2 and must specify the Account(s) to which the Elective Deferrals are to be credited pursuant to Section 4.1.1, and the payment form associated with such Account.
Additional Accounts may also be maintained if considered appropriate by ADM in the administration of the Plan.
Distributions from Account B, C, D, E and/or F - Scheduled Distribution Accounts will be made in accordance with Article VI, or in the event of a Separation from Service or Disability over-ride election made by the Participant in accordance with Article VI, following Separation from Service or Disability in accordance with Article VII, or in either event following death in accordance with Article VIII.
A Participant (or Beneficiary following the death of the Participant) will be allowed on a hypothetical basis to direct the investment of his/her Accounts among the investment options available under the Plan. Hypothetical i
nvestment directions may be given with such frequency as is deemed appropriate by ADM, and must be made in such percentage or dollar increments, in such manner and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed for this purpose by ADM (including by means of a voice response or other electronic system under circumstances so authorized by ADM).
If an investment option has a loss, the Earnings Credit attribut able to such investment option will serve to reduce the Account; similarly, if an investment option has a gain, the Earnings Credit attributable to such investment option will serve to increase the Account. If the Participant fails to elect an investment option, the Earnings Credit will be based on a money market investment option or such other investment option as may be selected for this purpose by ADM.
A Participant at all times will have a fully vested interest in his/her Accounts under the Plan.
Payment will be made (or installments will commence) from a Scheduled Distribution Account during January of the scheduled distribution Plan Year.
When a Participant directs that Scheduled Distribution Account B be established, he/she must specify the Plan Year during which payment is to be made (or installments are to commence) with respect to such Account.
If so permitted by ADM, a Participant may make a different over-ride election to apply in the case of Retirement or Disability than will apply in the case of any other Separation from Service (for example, the Participant may elect that Article VII will over-ride in the event of Retirement or Disability, but not any other Separation from Service, or that Article VII will over-ride in the event of any Separation from Service or Disability).
A Scheduled Distribution Account that will be paid in a given Plan Year will not count toward the maximum five (5) Scheduled Distribution Accounts. Accordingly, if a Participant has five (5) Scheduled Distribution Accounts, and one such Account will be paid in a given Plan Year, a Participant will be allowed to establish another Scheduled Distribution Account with respect to Elective Deferral Credits made for such Plan Year.
In the event of death, distributions from a Scheduled Distribution Account will be determined under Article VIII.
Any election under paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) will not apply to a Company Matching Account - Account G; rather, such Account will be paid in all cases as of the date specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1), as applicable.
 
7.2.2
   
Form of Distribution
. A distribution will be made in the following form:
Notwithstanding the above, if the Participant dies while he/she is receiving installments under Sec. 7.2.2(a), such installments will continue to his/her Beneficiary over the same period such benefits would have been paid to the Participant.
Any valid designation in effect under the Prior Plan will apply to this Plan unless and until changed by the Participant, or revoked upon marriage as provided in Sec. 8.2.2.
A Beneficiary designation will be automatically revoked upon marriage of a Participant unless the new Spouse was designated as the sole primary Beneficiary. Further, if a Spouse is designated as Beneficiary, such designation will be automatically revoked upon the divorce of the Participant and former Spouse.
A Participating Affiliate is not responsible for (and has no contractual obligation with respect to) benefits payable to a Participant who is or was employed with ADM or a Participating Affiliate. If a Participant is employed with two or more employers (ADM and a Participating Affiliate, or two or more Participating Affiliates, etc.), either concurrently or at different times, each will be responsible for the benefit attributable to Elective Deferral Credits and Company Matching Credits made while the Participant was employed with that employer, adjusted for Earnings Credits.
Notwithstanding the contractual obligation, no Participant or Beneficiary entitled to benefits under this Plan has any right, title or claim in or to any specific assets of ADM or any Participating Affiliate, but instead has the right of a general creditor of such employer.
The assets of any rabbi trust hereby established will not be held or transferred outside of the United States, and the trust will not have any other feature that would result in a transfer of property being deemed to have occurred under Code  409A (for example, there will be no funding obligation or restrictions on assets in connection with a change in financial health of ADM or any Affiliate).
A Participant will have the right to enforce the funding obligation imposed hereunder;
provided that,
in the case of a funding obligation that arises as a result of a Potential Change in Control, a Participant will have the right to enforce the funding obligation only if the Participants have first followed the procedures specified in Sec. 2.1.18 and there has been no timely opinion letter of a nationally or regionally recognized law firm delivered to the Participants that a Potential Change in Control has not occurred for purposes of the Plan.
The Benefit Plans Committee or Chief Executive Officer acts on behalf ADM in its corporate capacity in connection with any amendment to the Plan.
Where action is to be taken by the ADM Board of Directors (or its Compensation Committee) under the Plan, such action is taken in a corporate capacity (and not as administrator) with respect to the Plan.
The arbitrator(s) may award reasonable fees and expenses to the prevailing party in any dispute hereunder and will award reasonable fees and expenses in the event that the arbitrator(s) find that the losing party acted in bad faith or with intent to harass, hinder or delay the prevailing party in the exercise of its rights in connection with the matter under dispute.
 
 
M1:1155399.08
 

 
Page
ARTICLE I INTRODUCTION
 
ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
 
ARTICLE III PARTICIPATION
 
ARTICLE IV SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION BENEFITS
 
ARTICLE V VESTING
 
ARTICLE VI DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER DEATH
 
ARTICLE VII CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND FUNDING
 
ARTICLE VIII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION/CLAIMS PROCEDURES
 
ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS
  
10.9   
 
Notice11
  
The ADM Board of Directors (or its Compensation Committee), or the ADM Chief Executive Officer (in each case acting in a corporate capacity), in its/his/her sole and absolute discretion, may determine that an Employee described above will not be an Eligible Employee. However, the Plan is intended to cover only those Employees who are in
a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of ERISA  201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1); and, accordingly, if any interpretation is issued by the Department of Labor that would exclude any Employee from satisfying that requirement, such Employee immediately will cease to be an Eligible Employee.
ADM will determine the Prior Plan Offset in any reasonable manner, taking into account any Treasury regulations or guidance with respect to amounts that are "grandfathered" under Code  409A. The Prior Plan Offset will not include any accrual under the Prior Plan that vests after December 31, 2004, and is thus covered by this Plan.
Whenever this document references an annuity that "would be" paid under the Prior Plan or Qualified Retirement Plan as of a given date, such annuity will be determined as if the Participant (or Spouse) had received (or started to receive) his/her benefit under the Prior Plan or Qualified Retirement as of the specified date, regardless of whether the benefit under such plan is actually paid then or at a later time.
Enrollment is required, and must be made in such manner and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed for this purpose by ADM (including by means of a voice response or other electronic sy
stem under circumstances authorized by ADM).
A participant in the Prior Plan on December 31, 2004, must enroll for this Plan by December 31, 2004.
The first payment made under paragraph (a) will include a catch-up payment of all monthly payments that would have been made to the Participant (without any adjustment for interest or earnings) from the payment date under paragraph (b) (this adjustment applies only if the payment date under paragraph (a) is later than the payment date under paragraph (b).
A joint and survivor annuity will be payable only if the Participant has a surviving Spouse on the scheduled commencement date of the Supplemental Pension Benefit. If the Participant is not married on the scheduled commencement date (including if the Spouse predeceased the Participant or in the event of a divorce), the Supplemental Pension will be paid as a life annuity in accordance with paragraph (a).
A joint and survivor annuity will be the actuarial equivalent of the life annuity starting on the same date.
Actuarial equivalence for this purpose will be determined using
the following actuarial assumptions: Interest - six percent (6%) annual rate; Mortality - the mortality table prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of Code  417(e) (as specified in Revenue Ruling 2001-62 or as specified in any subsequent ruling, regulation, or other guidance of general applicability that supercedes Revenue Ruling 2001-62 for distributions with an annuity starting date on or after the earliest available date thereunder).
Present value for this purpose will be determined
using
the following actuarial assumptions: Interest - the annual rate of interest prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of Code  417(e), with the interest rate prescribed for October applying with respect to any payment date during the next Plan Year; Mortality - the mortality table prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of Code  417(e) (as specified in Revenue Ruling 2001-62 or as specified in any subsequent ruling, regulation, or other guidance of general applicability that supercedes Revenue Ruling 2001-62 for distributions with an annuity starting date on or after the earliest available date thereunder).
Present value for this purpose will be determined
using
the following actuarial assumptions: Interest - the annual rate of interest prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of Code  417(e), with the interest rate prescribed for October applying with respect to any payment date during the next Plan Year; Mortality - the mortality table prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of Code  417(e) (as specified in Revenue Ruling 2001-62 or as specified in any subsequent ruling, regulation, or other guidance of general applicability that supercedes Revenue Ruling 2001-62 for distributions with an annuity starting date on or after the earliest available date thereunder).
A Participating Affiliate is not responsible for (and has no contractual obligation with respect to) benefits payable to a Participant who is or was employed with ADM or a Participating Affiliate. If a Participant is employed with two or more employers (ADM and a Participating Affiliate, or two or more Participating Affiliates, etc.), either concurrently or at different times, each will be responsible for the benefit attributable to the period of service with such employer.
Notwithstanding the contractual obligation, no Participant or Spouse entitled to benefits under this Plan has any right, title or claim in or to any specific assets of ADM or any Participating Affiliate, but instead has the right of a general creditor of such employer.
Any rabbi trust used to fund benefits payable under this Plan may be used to fund benefits payable under any other non-qualified deferred compensation plan maintained by ADM or any Participating Affiliate.
The assets of any rabbi trust hereby established will not be held or transferred outside of the United States, and the trust will not have any other feature that would result in a transfer of property being deemed to have occurred under Code  409A (for example, there will be no funding obligation or restri
ctions on assets in connection with a change in financial health of ADM or any Affiliate).
The Benefit Plans Committee or Chief Executive Officer acts on behalf ADM in its corporate capacity in connection with any amendment to the Plan.
Where action is to be taken by the ADM Board of Directors (or its Compensation Committee) under the Plan, such action is taken in a corporate capacity (and not as administrator) with respect to the Plan.
 
The arbitrator(s) may award reasonable fees and expenses to the prevailing party in any dispute hereunder and will award reasonable fees and expenses in the event that the arbitrator(s) find that the losing party acted in bad faith or with intent to harass, hinder or delay the prevailing party in the exercise of its rights in connection with the matter under dispute.
M1:1156585.04

 
1.
   
Introduction
The Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Stock Unit Plan for Nonemployee Directors is intended to promote the interests of the Company and its Stockholders by paying part or all of the compensation of the Company's nonemployee directors in the form of an economic equivalent of an equity interest in the Company, thereby providing appropriate incentives and rewards to encourage nonemployee directors to take a long-term outlook when formulating policy applicable to the Company and encouraging them to remain on the Board. In general, the Plan provides for the conversion of at least 50 percent and up to 100 percent of a nonemployee director's fees for each calendar year into units of measurement relating to the value of the Company's common stock, and for payment t o the director of the value of such units on the earlier of (a) the passage of five full calendar years or (b) upon termination from service on the Board (in either case, subject to deferral of the payment date by the nonemployee director in accordance with the terms of the Plan). A nonemployee director will thus normally receive payment under the Plan each successive year in respect of the fees originally converted into units in the year preceding the fifth calendar year prior to the year of payment. A nonemployee director will participate in the Plan for all periods of service on the Board following the effective date of the Plan, notwithstanding any future payments to the director of any part of his interest under the Plan.
The original Plan was approved by the Stockholders of the Company at its 1996 Annual Meeting and become effective on January 1, 1997. In July 1997, the Board of Directors amended the original Plan by increasing the minimum portion of the nonemployee directors' fees to be converted into units from 25 percent to 50 percent. The Plan was further amended in October 2001 to permit nonemployee directors to defer payment under the Plan in certain circumstances and again in December 2003 to provide nonemployee directors with additional flexibility in electing to defer payment under the Plan. Most recently, the Plan was amended effective January 1, 2005 to comply with Section 409A of the Code, which was added by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
 
2.
   
Definitions
 
(a)
   
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(b)
   
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
(c)
   
"Committee" means the Benefit Plans Committee of the Company, or any successor committee thereto.
 
(d)
   
"Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, without par value.
 
(e)
   
"Company" means Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, a Delaware corporation.
 
(f)
   
"Director's Fees" means the annual retainer fee and all meeting fees, committee fees and other Director's fees earned by the Participant for his service on the Board.
 
(g)
   
"Fair Market Value" means, with respect to a share of the Common Stock, the average of the high and low reported sales price regular way per share of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the relevant day, or, in the absence thereof, on the most recent prior day for which such sales are reported. If the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange as of any date that Fair Market Value is to be determined, Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion in a manner consistently applied.
 
(h)
   
"Mandatory Conversion" means the required conversion of 50 percent of a Participant's Director's Fees into a Stock Unit Award pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
 
(i)
   
"Participant" means a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates.
 
(j)
   
"Plan" means this Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Stock Unit Plan for Nonemployee Directors.
 
(k)
   
"Realization Date" means, with respect to each Stock Unit allocated to a Participant's Stock Unit Account, the first business day following the earlier of (i) the date five years after the end of the calendar year that includes the calendar quarter for which such Stock Unit is awarded to the Participant or in which such Stock Unit is credited to the Participant as a dividend equivalent, or (ii) the date the Participant has a Separation from Service, in either case subject to extension under Section 5(e).
 
(l)
   
"Separation from Service" means that (i) with respect to Stock Unit Awards credited prior to January 1, 2005, the Participant has ceased to be a member of the Board, or (ii) with respect to Stock Unit Awards credited after December 31, 2004, the Participant has ceased to be a member of the Board and has otherwise had a separation from service recognized as such under Section 409A of the Code.
 
(m)
   
"Stock Unit" means a non-voting unit of measurement that is deemed for valuation and bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to an outstanding share of Common Stock, and shall include fractional units.
 
(n)
   
"Stock Unit Account" means a book account maintained by the Company reflecting the Stock Units allocated to a Participant pursuant to Section 4 hereof as a result of the Participant's Mandatory Conversions and Voluntary Conversions and such additional Stock Units as shall be credited thereto in respect of dividends paid on the Common Stock.
 
(o)
   
"Stock Unit Award" means an award under Section 4(c) hereof of Stock Units as a result of a Participant's Mandatory Conversion and Voluntary Conversion for a calendar quarter.
 
(p)
   
"Voluntary Conversion" means the conversion based on the election of the Participant of all or part of a Participant's Director's Fees otherwise payable to the Participant in cash into a Stock Unit Award pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
 
3.
   
Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to administer the Plan, including the discretionary authority to interpret and construe all provisions of the Plan, to resolve all questions of fact arising under the Plan, and to adopt such rules and regulations for administering the Plan as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Decisions of the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties. The Committee may delegate administrative responsibilities under the Plan to appropriate officers or employees of the Company. All expenses of the Plan shall be borne by the Company.
 
4.
   
Crediting of Stock Units
 
(a)
   
Mandatory Conversions
. For each calendar quarter in which the Plan is in effect, 50 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of a Participant's Director's Fees payable for such quarter shall be converted into a Stock Unit Award pursuant to Section 4(c) hereof.
 
(b)
   
Voluntary Conversions
. For each calendar quarter in which the Plan is in effect, a Participant may elect to convert all or any portion of his Director's Fees payable for such quarter (in addition to those required to be converted under Section 4(a) hereof) into a Stock Unit Award pursuant to Section 4(c) hereof. Each Voluntary Conversion shall be made on the basis of a Participant's written election stating the amount by which such Director's Fees shall be converted to a Stock Unit Aw ard. Each such election shall be made in the form required by the Committee, shall be delivered to the Company no later than December 31 of the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year for which the election is made, and shall be effective for each calendar quarter of such calendar year. In the case of a member of the Board who first becomes a Participant during a calendar year, such election for such year must be made within 30 days following such member becoming a Participant, and shall apply only to calendar quarters that begin following the date such election is made.
 
(c)
   
Stock Unit Awards
. A Participant shall receive a Stock Unit Award for each calendar quarter in respect of his Mandatory Conversion and any Voluntary Conversion applicable to such quarter. Such Stock Unit Award shall equal the number of the Stock Units determined by dividing (A) the aggregate dollar amount of the Participant's Director's Fees that are converted to a Stock Unit Award for the quarter by his Mandatory Conversion and Voluntary Conversion, by (B) the Fair Market Value of the Com mon Stock on the last business day of such calendar quarter. Each Stock Unit Award shall be credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account as of the first day following the end of the calendar quarter for which such Stock Unit Award is granted.
 
(d)
   
Dividend Equivalents
. As of any date that cash dividends are paid with respect to the Common Stock from time to time, each Participant's Stock Unit Account shall be credited with an additional number of Stock Units determined by dividing (A) the aggregate dollar amount of the dividends that would have been paid on the Stock Units credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account as of the record date for such dividend had such Stock Units been actual shares of Common Stock by (B) the Fair M arket Value of the Common Stock on the dividend payment date.
 
(e)
   
Certain Adjustments
. In the event of a reorganization, recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger or consolidation, or the sale, conveyance, lease or other transfer by the Company of all or substantially all of its property, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, pursuant to any of which events the then outstanding shares of the Common Stock are split up or combined or are changed into, become exchangeable at the holder's elect ion for, or entitle the holder thereof to, other shares of stock, or similar change in the Common Stock or other similar event that the Committee, in its discretion, deems appropriate, each Participant's Stock Unit Account shall be adjusted as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion to reflect such change or other event. It is intended that in making such adjustments, the Committee will seek to treat each Participant as if he were a stockholder of the Common Stock of the number of Stock Units credited to his Stock Unit Account (but without duplication of any benefits that may be provided under Section 4(d) hereof). Except as is expressly provided in this Section, Participants shall have no rights as a result of any such change in the Common Stock or other event.
 
5.
   
Distributions of Benefits
 
(a)
   
Valuation and Payment of Units
. Subject to Section 6 hereof, a Participant shall be entitled to a benefit under the Plan with respect to each Stock Unit Award upon the Realization Date for such Stock Unit Award. Such benefit shall be equal to the cash amount determined by multiplying (A) the number of Stock Units credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account in respect of the Stock Unit Award for which the Realization Date has occurred (including additional Stock Units credited to the Partic ipant's Stock Unit Account with respect thereto pursuant to Section 4(d) hereof) by (B) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Realization Date. Each such amount shall be paid to the Participant in cash within 30 days after the applicable Realization Date.
 
(b)
   
Payment of Additional Dividends
. Subject to Section 6 hereof, if, pursuant to Section 4(d) hereof, additional Stock Units are required to be credited to a Participant's Stock Unit Account in respect of Stock Units that were held in the Participant's Stock Unit Account as of the record date for dividends paid on the Common Stock that were paid after the payment to the Participant of a benefit in respect of such Stock Units, the Company shall pay to the Participant a cash amount in respect o f such dividends equal to the dollar amount of such dividends. Such amount shall be paid to the Participant within 30 days after the dividend payment date.
 
(c)
   
Payment of Nonconverted Fees
. Subject to Section 6 hereof, in the event that a Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the time that Stock Units are credited to his Stock Unit Account pursuant to Section 4(c) hereof in respect of his Mandatory Conversion or Voluntary Conversion for a calendar quarter, the amount of all Director's Fees earned by the Participant during such quarter shall be paid to the Participant in cash within 30 days after his Separation from Service.
 
(d)
   
Section 16 Restrictions
. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, if and to the extent required in order for Stock Units to meet the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3 (or any successor thereto) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, no amount in respect of any Stock Unit Award (including any additional Stock Units allocated to a Participant's Stock Unit Account pursuant to Section 4(d) hereof) shall be paid to a Participant until the expiration of 6 months after the Stock Units in respect of which the payment is to be made have been allocated to the Participant's Stock Unit Account, and the amount of such payment shall be determined based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date such 6-month period expires.
 
(e)
   
Extension of Realization Date
. A Participant shall be allowed the following elections:
 
(A)
   
A Participant shall be allowed to extend the Realization Date occurring under Section 2(k)(i) to a new Realization Date determined by the Participant, subject to the following:
 
(i)
   
An election will be effective only if it is received by the Committee at least 12 months prior to the currently scheduled Realization Date; and
 
(ii)
   
With respect to any Stock Unit Award credited after December 31, 2004, the new Realization Date must be at least 5 years after the currently scheduled Realization Date unless the election to extend the Realization Date is received by the Committee prior to the calendar year in which the Stock Unit Award is made to the Participant.
 
A Participant may elect to extend the Realization Date any number of times, provided that each election complies with paragraphs (i) and (ii).
 
(B)
   
A Participant shall be allowed to extend the Realization Date occurring under Section 2(k)(ii) to up to three new Realization Dates determined by the Participant that are a fixed number of months (not more than 30 months) after the Participant's Separation from Service. An election will be effective with respect to a Stock Unit Award if it is received by the Committee prior to the calendar year in which the Stock Unit Award is credited to the Participant. Thereafter, an election will be effective with respect to a Stock Unit Award credited prior to January 1, 2005, if it is received by the Committee at least 12 months prior to Separation from Service (in the case of any Stock Unit Award credited after December 31, 2004, an election under subsection (B) of this Section 5(e) will not be allowed after December 31 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the Stock Unit Award is made to the Participant).
If a Participant has made an election under subsection (A) of this Section 5(e) to extend a Realization Date occurring under Section 2(k)(i) with respect to a Stock Unit Award, and the extended Realization Date would occur after Separation from Service, Separation from Service shall not operate to accelerate that Realization Date, subject to the following:
 
(i)
   
If the Participant also has made an election under subsection (B) of this Section 5(e) to extend a Realization Date occurring under Section 2(k)(ii) with respect to a Stock Unit Award, that election shall override the election made under subsection (A) of this Section 5(e) and shall govern the payment of the Stock Unit Award; and
 
(ii)
   
If the extended Realization Date elected under subsection (A) of this Section 5(e) would result in a Realization Date that is more than 30 months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service, the Realization Date shall automatically be accelerated to the last business day of the 30
th
month after the Participant's Separation from Service.
An election to extend a Realization Date under subsection (A) or (B) of this Section 5(e) must be made in such a manner and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed for this purpose by the Committee and must receive the approval required to exempt the disposition of the Stock Units under Rule 16b-3 (or any successor thereto) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
With respect to any extension under subsection (A) or (B) of this Section 5(e), no Participant may elect to establish more than one new Realization Date in any given calendar year.
 
6.
   
Forfeiture of Benefits
Each Participant's benefits hereunder shall be nonforfeitable, except that a Participant shall forfeit all rights to all benefits hereunder in respect of Mandatory Conversions, Voluntary Conversions and Stock Units credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account if the Participant's status as a director of the Company is (or is deemed to have been) terminated for Cause. For purposes hereof, a Participant's status as a director shall have been terminated for "Cause" upon the voluntary or involuntary termination of the individual's service as a director on account of (i) the willful violation by the Participant of any federal or state law or any rule or regulation of any regulatory body to which the Company or its affiliates is su bject, which violation would materially reflect on the Participant's character, competence or integrity or (ii) a breach by the Participant of the Participant's duty of loyalty to the Company and its affiliates. If, subsequent to the termination of a Participant's status as a director of the Company, it is determined by the Committee that the Participant's status as a director of the Company could have been terminated for Cause, such Participant's status as a director of the Company may be deemed to have been terminated for Cause.
 
7.
   
Beneficiaries
Any payment required to be made to a Participant hereunder that cannot be made to the Participant because of his death shall be made to the Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries, subject to applicable law. Each Participant shall have the right to designate in writing from time to time a beneficiary or beneficiaries by filing a written notice of such designation with the Committee. In the event a beneficiary designated by the Participant does not survive the Participant and no successor beneficiary is selected, or in the event no valid designation has been made, such Participant's beneficiary shall be such Participant's estate.
 
8.
   
Unfunded Status of the Plan
The Plan shall be unfunded, and Mandatory Conversions, Voluntary Conversions, Stock Units credited to each Participant's Stock Unit Account and all benefits payable to Participants under the Plan represent merely unfunded, unsecured promises of the Company to pay a sum of money to the Participant in the future.
 
9.
   
Alienation of Benefits Prohibited
No transfer (other than pursuant to Section 7 hereof) by a Participant of any right to any payment hereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, and whether by means of alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge, or encumbrance of any kind, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right, and any attempt to so alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, attach, charge, or otherwise encumber any such amount, whether presently or thereafter payable, shall be void and of no force or effect.
 
10.
   
No Special Rights
Nothing contained in the Plan shall confer upon any Participant any right with respect to the continuation of the Participant's status as a director of the Company.
 
11.
   
Termination and Amendment
The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board. The Plan may be amended by the Board from time to time in any respect; provided, however, that no such amendment may reduce the number of Stock Units theretofore credited or creditable to a Participant's Stock Unit Account without the affected Participant's prior written consent. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment made to the Plan, shall not operate to accelerate the Realization Date with respect to any Stock Unit Award unless specifically so provided by the Board and allowed under Section 409A of the Code.
 
12.
   
Savings Clause Under Section 409A of the Code
The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. To the extent any provision of this Plan does not satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or in any regulations or other guidance issued by the Treasury Department under Section 409A of the Code subsequent to the adoption of this Plan, such provision will be applied in a manner consistent with such requirements, regulations or guidance, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any contrary or inconsistent election made by a Participant.
 
13.
   
Choice of Law
The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois, without reference to the principles of conflicts of laws, and to applicable federal securities laws.
M1:1054471.07
#33500


