FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20061221110618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
  December 15, 2006
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

  
has been named Senior Vice President-Strategic Planning for Archer Daniels Midland Company. Mr. Mills will continue to serve as a member of the Strategic Planning Committee and will report to ADM CEO and President .
Steven Mills
Patricia Woertz
 
Mr. Mills joined ADM in 1979 and has 29 years of finance experience, most recently serving as Group Vice President and Controller.  In his new role, Mr. Mills will be focused on strategic initiatives including business development, merger and acquisition coordination, scorecard development/alignment, and competitive intelligence analysis. ADMs Planning and Business Development group will report to Mr. Mills.
 
.
A certified public accountant, Mr. Mills received a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics from Illinois College
 
has been appointed Vice President and Controller.  In this position, Mr. Stott will be responsible for all accounting functions at ADM. Mr. Stott joined ADM in 1992 and has had a variety of financial and treasury responsibilities both domestically and internationally. He most recently served as Operations Controller. Mr. Stott will report to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
John Stott
Doug Schmalz,
 
Mr. Stott, educated in England, is a Fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and an Associate member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.  
 
Also reporting to will be the Investor Relations department. This move serves to streamline the Companys financial reporting processes and strengthen the Companys investor relations initiatives. will continue to serve as Vice President-Investor Relations, reporting to Mr. Schmalz.
Doug Schmalz
Dwight Grimestad
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) is the world leader in BioEnergy and has a premier position in the agricultural processing value chain. ADM is one of the worlds largest processors of soybeans, corn, wheat and cocoa. ADM is a leading manufacturer of biodiesel, ethanol, soybean oil and meal, corn sweeteners, flour and other value-added food and feed ingredients. Headquartered in Decatur, Illinois, ADM has over 26,000 employees, more than 240 processing plants and net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 of $37 billion. Additional information can be found on ADMs Web site at http://www.admworld.com/.
 
From: Brian Peterson, Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs
217/424-5413



