FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20060501161009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
  April 27, 2006
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
Executive and the Company hereby agree to the following terms of Executives employment with the Company:
Agreed and accepted by the parties hereto:
April 27, 2006
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.
By:
/s/ Kelvin R. Westbrook
Its:
Chairman, Select Committee
Executive
/s/ Patricia A. Woertz
Patricia A. Woertz
 
Cause
 shall mean:
(a) Executives indictment for or conviction of (or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to) a felony or any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, theft or financial impropriety; provided, any termination ostensibly for Cause based such an indictment that does not result in a conviction of (or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to) a felony or other such crime, above, shall be deemed a termination without Cause as of the date of such termination; or
(b) a determination by the Board that Executive has (i) willfully and continuously failed to perform substantially her duties (other than any such failure resulting from the Executives disability or incapacity due to bodily injury or physical or mental illness), which failure has continued for a period of at least thirty days following delivery of a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive by the Board which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that Executive has not substantially performed her duties, (ii) engaged in a material act of dishonesty, or gross misconduct in the cause of her employment injurious to the Company, or (iii) willfully violated a material requirement of the Companys code of conduct or her fiduciary duty to the Company. No act or failure to act on Executives part shall be considered willful unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that Executives action or omission was in, and not opposed to, the best interests of the Company.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not terminate Executives employment for Cause unless and until (i) Executive is given three days advance written notice of the Board meeting called to make such determination, (ii) Executive and her legal counsel are given the opportunity to address such meeting, and (iii) a majority of the Companys Board determines that Cause exists (specifying the particulars thereof), and approves the termination of Executive for Cause.
Good Reason
 shall mean, without Executives express written consent, the occurrence of any of the following events:
(a)
 
an adverse change in Executives status or positions as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company (including as a result of a material diminution in Executives duties or responsibilities), or any removal of Executive from or any failure to reappoint or reelect Executive to such positions (except in connection with the termination of Executives employment for Cause or disability, as a result of Executives death or by Executive other than for Good Reason);
(b)
 
any reduction in Executives base salary or target annual bonus;
(c)
 
Executive being required to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 50 miles from the Companys headquarters;
(d)
 
the failure by the shareholders of the Company to elect or to reelect Executive as a director or the removal of Executive from such position; or
(e)
 
the failure of the Company to obtain an agreement from any successor to all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company to assume and agree to perform this Agreement within fifteen days after a merger, consolidation, sale or similar transaction.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM), one of the worlds largest agricultural processors, today announced that Patricia A. Woertz has been selected as President, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors, succeeding G. Allen Andreas, who remains as Chairman of the Board.
Woertz, 53, most recently was Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation, in charge of the oil companys downstream operations, including refining, marketing, lubricant, supply and trading businesses in 180 countries, with more than $100 billion in annual revenues and a global workforce of 30,000. Chevron is one of the worlds leading energy companies, and Woertz was one of the highest-ranking executives in the energy industry.
Pat Woertz is a proven executive with an exceptional blend of strategic, analytic, business and leadership skills, said Andreas. Her selection was endorsed unanimously by our Board of Directors, and we are confident that she is the ideal person to sustain ADMs strong performance and lead the Company into the next chapter of its history.
Woertz becomes only the 8th CEO in the 104-year history of ADM.
Commenting on her appointment, Woertz said:
I am honored and excited to be part of the ADM organization and look forward to working with its outstanding leadership team and Board of Directors. ADM is one of the leading agricultural companies in the world, with a long tradition of applying innovation and resourcefulness to feed and fuel the world. While most of my executive experience has been in the field of energy, there are considerable similarities in commodity-based businesses as we build competitive advantages across the value chain.
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 2
ADMs Board sought a CEO with outstanding credentials and experience in leading a complex, global business and a track record of outstanding operating performance, said O.
Glenn Webb, lead Director and member of the select committee of ADMs Board of Directors. Pat met all of our Boards criteria. She has delivered record earnings and returns at Chevron and has further distinguished herself working with a diverse range of government, community and commercial stakeholders. She has also been widely admired for her integrity, her high ethical standards and her collegial and collaborative leadership style.
Prior to becoming Executive Vice President at Chevron in 2001, Woertz was President of Chevron Products Co. since November 1998. In January 1996, she was named President of Chevron International Oil Co. and a Vice President of logistics and trading for Chevron Products Co. In October 1993, she was named President of Chevron Canada Ltd., a refining and marketing company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chevron Corp.
Woertz started her career as a certified public accountant with Ernst & Young. In 1977, she joined Gulf Oil Corporation in Pittsburgh and held positions in refining and marketing, strategic planning and finance. From 1985 to 1987, during the merger of Gulf and Chevron, she worked on asset divestitures as part of the debt-reduction process. In 1989, she became finance manager with Chevron Information Technology Co. and, in 1991, was named head of strategic planning at Chevron.
A native of Pittsburgh, Woertz earned her Bachelor of Science degree from Pennsylvania State University and also is a graduate of Columbia Universitys International Executive Development Program. She serves on the Board of Trustees of the University of San Diego and on the Board of Visitors of Pennsylvania State University. In addition, she was formerly a director of the American Petroleum Institute.
Fortune
magazine has named Woertz one of the top ten most powerful women in business every year since 2000.
Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) is a world leader in agricultural processing and fermentation technology. ADM is one of the worlds largest processors of soybeans, corn, wheat and cocoa. ADM is also a leader in the production of soybean oil and meal, ethanol, corn sweeteners and flour. In addition, ADM produces value-added food and feed ingredients. Headquartered in Decatur, Illinois, ADM has over 25,000 employees, more than 250 processing plants and net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 of $35.9 billion. Additional information can be found on ADMs Web site at
http://www.admworld.com
.
 
From: Brian Peterson, Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs
217/424-5413



