FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20070216102224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
  February 16, 2007
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
News Release
 
 
      In addition, ADM expects to enter into separate warrant transactions with one or more of the initial purchasers and/or their affiliates. These transactions will generally have the effect of increasing the conversion price of the notes. The warrants associated with the notes have an exercise price that is 75 percent higher than the closing price of ADMs stock on February 15, 2007.
 
This notice does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities. Any offers of the securities will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum. The securities and the shares of ADM common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of the notes have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
About Archer Daniels Midland Company
      Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) is the world leader in BioEnergy and has a premier position in the agricultural processing value chain. ADM is one of the worlds largest processors of soybeans, corn, wheat and cocoa. ADM is a leading manufacturer of biodiesel, ethanol, soybean oil and meal, corn sweeteners, flour and other value-added food and feed ingredients. Headquartered in Decatur, Illinois, ADM has over 26,000 employees, more than 240 processing plants and net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 of $37 billion. Additional information can be found on ADMs Web site at
http://www.admworld.com/
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
      This press release includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, including satisfaction of the closing conditions contained in the purchase agreement between ADM and the initial purchaser, which include a condition that there be no material adverse effect on ADMs business prior to the closing of the offering and other conditions in whole or in part beyond ADMs control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Other risks that could impact the offering are described in detail in the ADM Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2006 as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to ADM and ADM assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
From: Brian Peterson, Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs
217/424-5413



