FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20080207142910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
     is made and entered into as of the 6 day of February, 2008, by and between Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Douglas J. Schmalz ("Schmalz").
THIS AGREEMENT
th
     , Schmalz is an employee and officer of the Company; and
WHEREAS
     , Schmalz, and the Company have reached an agreement in regard to Schmalz ceasing to be an active employee and an officer of the Company as set forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the premises, the covenants as set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1. Schmalz shall resign as an officer of the Company and retire as an employee effective February 29, 2008. Schmalz shall be deemed to have taken all earned vacation as of the date of his retirement. Schmalz acknowledges that he will not be entitled to receive any form of unemployment compensation or benefits.
     2. Schmalz shall execute a Release of Claims and Covenant Not To Sue in the form of Exhibit A, attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein (the "Release"). Schmalz hereby acknowledges the twenty-one (21) day review period provided pursuant to the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act. Schmalz understands he may revoke this Agreement and the Release in writing addressed to the Company within seven (7) days after the execution of this Agreement and Release in which event this Agreement and Release will be of no force and effect and he will be entitled to no payments or benefits in consideration hereof.
     3. Without the prior written consent of the Company, which consent must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or an Executive Vice President of the Company, for a period of twelve (12) months commencing on March 1, 2008, Schmalz shall not own any interest in, except the ownership of stock in a publicly-traded company, take any employment with, or act as a director, consultant, advisor or in any other capacity whatsoever, directly or indirectly, to any person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture or any other form of entity, anywhere in the world that is engaged in business that competes with any businesses of the Company that were within Schmalz's scope of responsibilities while employed by the Company. Schmalz acknowledges that, in view of his responsibilities while employed by the Company, the scope of this restrictive covenant is reasonable. Schmalz further acknowledges that a violation of this restrictive covenant would cause irreparable damage to the Company and that in the event of a breach or threatened breach the Company would be entitled to injuctive relief, without the posting of any bond, in addition to such other relief as may be appropriate at law or in equity.
 
     4. Schmalz recognizes and agrees that the Company has a legitimate business interest in restricting potential competitors from hiring Employees who possess or otherwise may have or had access to the Company's or any of its affiliates' confidential information. Therefore, Schmalz agrees that for a two (2) year period following the end of his employment, he shall not directly or indirectly through any other person or entity that provides goods or services to the Company or any of its affiliates or offers goods or services in competition with the Company or any of its affiliates, hire, recruit, induce or attempt to induce any Employee to terminate his or her employment with the Company or any of its affiliates or otherwise interfere in any way with the employment relationship between the Company or any of its affiliates and their respective employees. This restriction includes but is not limited to a) identifying Employees as potential candidates for employment by name, background or qualifications; b) approaching, recruiting or soliciting Employees; and/or c) participating in any pre-employment interviews with Employees. For purposes of this provision "Employee" means any employee who has or had access to the Company's or any of its affiliates' confidential information, including former employees.
     5. The Non-Disclosure Agreement dated September 22, 1991, a copy of which is marked Exhibit B, attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
     6.a. As consideration for the Release, the Company shall pay Schmalz, in cash, the sum of Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($750,000). This payment shall be made on or before March 31, 2008.
     b. As consideration for the covenant not to compete as set forth in paragraph 3 above, the Company shall pay Schmalz, in cash, the sum of Four Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars ($490,000). Provided Schmalz has not breached the covenant not to compete, this payment shall be made on or before March 1, 2009.
     c. As consideration for the other covenants as set forth in this Agreement,
     the Company shall: (i) pay Schmalz, in cash, a sum equal to fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate difference between the option strike price and the Fair Market Value of the underlying securities for all stock options currently held by Schmalz that will not be vested as of February 29, 2008 and will not continue to vest under the terms of the granting document; (ii) upon request, provide reasonable outplacement services; and (iii) transfer title to Schmalz of his Company-owned car. The payment referenced in (i) and the title transfer shall be made on or before March 31, 2008. Any outplacement expenses shall not be reimbursed or in-kind benefits provided under this paragraph beyond December 31, 2008. For purposes of this Agreement, "Fair Market Value" shall be the simple average closing price of the common stock of the Company on the last ten (10) trading days of February 2008.
     d. Schmalz shall not be entitled to any other payments or benefits other than as expressly set forth in this Agreement except those benefits payable pursuant to certain benefit plans of the Company and the agreements related to previously granted equity-based compensation.
 
     7. The terms and conditions of this Agreement and the payments made pursuant hereto shall remain confidential and Schmalz shall not disclose the same to any person, except his immediate family, lawyer or accountant, or as required by law. Schmalz shall make no public statements, or request, cause or solicit any third party to make any public statements, regarding the circumstances underlying his retirement, that are in any way inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, or adverse to the interests or reputation of the Company, or any of its directors, officers or employees.
     8. Schmalz shall not request or apply for employment with the Company or any of its affiliates.
     9. All payments to be made to Schmalz hereunder shall be subject to all applicable taxes, including withholding taxes.
     10. In the event of the death of Schmalz prior to all payments contemplated by this Agreement being made, such remaining payments shall be promptly made to the estate or authorized representative of Schmalz.
     11. This Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws of the State of Illinois.
     12. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings between Schmalz and the Company, whether oral or in writing. This Agreement may not be revoked, amended, modified or revised except as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Agreement or in writing executed by Schmalz and a corporate officer of the Company.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
WITNESS:

 
Exhibit 99.1
     Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today announced the appointment of George W. Buckley to its Board of Directors, effective immediately. Buckley has been appointed to serve on the Board's Audit and Nominating/Corporate Governance committees. His appointment increases the size of the Board to ten.
     Buckley is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of 3M, a recognized leader in research and development that produces thousands of innovative products for dozens of diverse markets. He also serves on the Board of Directors of Black & Decker.
     "George's background of strong leadership experience and expertise in engineering, and his passion for innovation will make him a valuable contributor to the ADM Board," said chairman and chief executive officer Patricia Woertz.
     Before joining 3M, Buckley served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Brunswick Corporation and President of the U.S. Electric Motors division, and Automotive and Precision Motors division of Emerson Electric Company. Prior to his tenure at Emerson, Buckley was Managing Director of the Central Services division of the British Railways Board in the United Kingdom.
     Buckley jointly studied at the Universities of Southampton and Huddersfield in the United Kingdom, where he received a doctorate in engineering. He also holds a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical and electronic engineering and an honorary Doctor in Science degree in engineering from the University of Huddersfield.
Cash Dividend Declared
     The Board of Directors of ADM also declared a cash dividend of 13 cents per share on the Company's stock payable March 11, 2008, to Shareholders of record February 19, 2008. This is an increase of one and one-half cents a share. This is ADM's 305 consecutive quarterly payment, a record of 76 years of uninterrupted dividends. As of December 31, 2007, there were 643,536,551 shares of ADM stock outstanding.
th
 
About ADM
     Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) is the world leader in BioEnergy and has a premier position in the agricultural processing value chain. ADM is one of the world's largest processors of soybeans, corn, wheat and cocoa. ADM is a leading manufacturer of biodiesel, ethanol, soybean oil and meal, corn sweeteners, flour and other value-added food and feed ingredients. Headquartered in Decatur, Illinois, ADM has over 27,000 employees, more than 240 processing plants and net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 of $44 billion. Additional information can be found on ADM's Web site at .
http://www.admworld.com
Contact: David Weintraub Director, External Communications 217/424-5413

 
Exhibit 99.2
     Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) announced today that Steven R. Mills, currently senior vice president, Strategic Planning, will become executive vice president and chief financial officer, succeeding Douglas Schmalz, who will retire from the Company after more than 23 years of service. Mills will assume his new role on March 1.
     "Over the course of Doug's long career with ADM, he has provided strong financial expertise to enable the Company to fulfill its growth strategies," said Patricia Woertz, chairman and chief executive officer. "He has been a friend and a highly valued advisor and we wish him well in his retirement."
     "Steve Mills is extremely well qualified to succeed Doug," said Woertz. "His talent and expertise in finance, strategic planning and business leadership give him the ability to contribute broadly to the growth and direction of the Company. As CFO, his leadership will ensure we have continued strong governance, transparency and focus on results."
     Mills will lead ADM's worldwide finance organization and will have responsibility for Finance, Accounting, Strategic Planning, Treasury, Tax, Information Technology, Specialty Food Ingredients, ADM Investor Services, Hickory Point Bank and Investor Relations. He will continue to report to Woertz and serve on the Company's Strategic Planning Committee.
About Mills
     Steve Mills joined ADM in 1979 and served in senior treasury and accounting roles prior to being named controller in 1994. He was elected a vice president in 2000 and was named group vice president in 2002. In 2006, he was named senior vice president, Strategic Planning with responsibility for the Company's long- and short-term strategy process in addition to its information technology, business development, merger and acquisition coordination, and competitive intelligence analysis. Mills graduated in 1977 from Illinois College with a bachelor's degree in mathematics. In 1980, he earned the designation of Certified Public Accountant. He is professionally affiliated with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Illinois CPA Society, Financial Executives International and the Institute of Management Accountants. He serves on the board of directors of Kirby Hospital in Monticello, Illinois, and the Board of Trustees of Illinois College in Jacksonville, Illinois.
 
About Schmalz
     Douglas Schmalz joined ADM in 1985 as controller. In 1986, he was named chief financial officer. He was appointed senior vice president in 2002 and has served on ADM's Strategic Planning Committee since 2006. He holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and is a Certified Public Accountant. He serves on the boards of Decatur Memorial Hospital, Millikin University, the Decatur Area Educational Coalition, The Community Foundation of Decatur/Macon County, The Boys & Girls Club of Decatur and the Decatur Area Arts Council.
About ADM
     Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) is the world leader in BioEnergy and has a premier position in the agricultural processing value chain. ADM is one of the world's largest processors of soybeans, corn, wheat and cocoa. ADM is a leading manufacturer of biodiesel, ethanol, soybean oil and meal, corn sweeteners, flour and other value-added food and feed ingredients. Headquartered in Decatur, Illinois, ADM has over 27,000 employees, more than 240 processing plants and net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 of $44 billion. Additional information can be found on ADM's Web site at .
http://www.admworld.com
Contact: David Weintraub Director, External Communications 217/424-5413


