FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20090804135908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                       ;                                                                                          
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today announced net earnings of $ 1.7 billion for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to year-prior net earnings of $ 1.8 billion. Fiscal year 2009 net sales and other operating income was $ 69 billion, just under the $ 70 billion reported the prior year.
 
Net earnings for the fourth quarter decreased 83 % to $ 64 million. Net sales and other operating income for the quarter decreased 24 % to $ 16.5 billion.
 
In the fourth quarter, we felt the impact of the global economic downturn, as we concluded a year of good performance overall. In this downturn, we used our strong balance sheet and cash flow to make strategic investments to build long-term value, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz. As we look ahead, we see signs of improving demand in the various food, feed and fuel markets we serve. We remain financially strong and well positioned to capture value as global markets recover.
 
 
 
 
(Amounts in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 2
 
2009 Strategic Investment Activities
In Fiscal 2009, the Company advanced its strategy to expand the size and global reach of its core model:
 
 
Discussion of Operations
 
Net sales and other operating income decreased 24 % to $ 16.5 billion for the quarter and decreased 1 % to $ 69.2 billion for the year. For the quarter, decreased average selling prices reduced net sales and other operating income by approximately $ 5.8 billion and were partially offset by higher sales volumes. Average selling prices decreased in line with year-over-year declines in underlying commodity costs and foreign exchange translation impacts. For the year, a decrease in net sales and other operating income of approximately 3 % resulted from lower sales volumes and was partially offset by an increase related to higher average selling prices of approximately 2 %.
A summary of segment operating profit and net earnings is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 3
Discussion of Operations (Continued)
Segment operating profit decreased $ 569 million for the quarter and $ 988 million for the year. Corporate results increased $ 92 million for the quarter and $ 898 million for the year. Income taxes decreased $ 169 million for the quarter and increased $ 5 million for the year. Income taxes include charges resulting from a holding company restructuring related to a portion of the Companys equity investment in Wilmar International Limited of $ 61 million and $ 158 million for the quarter and year, respectively. In addition, income taxes for the quarter and year were positively impacted by geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, and return to provision adjustments.
 
Oilseeds Processing Operating Profit
Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $ 148 million for the quarter and increased $ 240 million for the year. Crushing and origination results declined $ 135 million for the quarter on lower North American crush volumes and cash margins, and decreased soy crush and grain origination volumes and margins in Europe. Crushing and origination results increased $ 40 million for the year as global crushing margins improved. Year-over-year fertilizer sales volumes and margins decreased and North American crush volumes declined due to lower demand.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit decreased $ 13 million for the quarter. Decreased European biodiesel margins and restructuring charges related to the Stratas JV negatively impacted results. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $ 84 million for the year due to increased biodiesel sales volumes in South America, increased average margins for value-added products and asset abandonment charges of $ 27 million included in the prior year.
Oilseeds results in Asia were unchanged for the quarter and increased $ 116 million for the year as the Companys investments, principally the equity interest in Wilmar International Limited, continued to perform well. 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 4
Corn Processing Operating Profit
Corn Processing operating profit decreased $ 273 million for the quarter and $ 776 million for the year. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $ 10 million for the quarter on higher average sweetener selling prices and lower manufacturing costs partially offset by higher net corn costs and reduced sales volumes. For the year, sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $ 57 million due to the impacts of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener selling prices.
Bioproducts operating profit decreased $ 283 million for the quarter and decreased $ 719 million for the year. Ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher net corn costs and lower average selling prices for the quarter and year, while manufacturing costs decreased for the quarter.
Agricultural Services Operating Profit
Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $ 123 million for the quarter and $ 23 million from last years record level. Merchandising margins were weaker as demand for commodities slowed with the downturn in the global economy. Results were also negatively impacted by less favorable risk management results. For the year, merchandising and handling operating profit decreased $ 41 million, primarily due to the decline in fourth-quarter results.
Transportation results increased $ 18 million for the year mainly due to higher barge freight rates.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 5
Other Operating Profit
Other operating profit decreased $ 25 million for the quarter and $ 429 million for the year. Other processing operating profit increased $ 8 million for the quarter. Improved global wheat milling margins and a gain related to the disposal of the Companys malting business were partially offset by a decline in cocoa processing sales volumes and Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. equity losses. Other processing operating profit decreased $ 166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa processing and wheat processing margins.
Financial operating profit decreased $ 33 million for the quarter and $ 263 million for the year due to losses on managed fund investments, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income of the Companys brokerage services business.
 
Corporate Results
 
Corporate results increased $ 92 million for the quarter and $ 898 million for the year. LIFO charges were $ 54 million for the quarter and LIFO credits were $ 517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. LIFO charges were $ 198 million and $ 569 million for the quarter and year ended June 30, 2008, respectively. Investment (expense) income increased $ 50 million for the quarter and $ 238 million for the year primarily related to increased interest expense and decreased interest income.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 6
 
Conference Call Information
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company will host a conference call and audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. Central Time on Tuesday, August 4, 2009, to discuss financial results and provide a Company update. In addition, a financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call. To listen to the call via the Internet or to download the slide presentation, go to . To listen by telephone, dial 866-314-9013 or 617-213-8053; the access code is 72551478. Replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on August 4 to August 11, 2009. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888; the access code is: 98586622. To listen to the replay online, visit .
www.adm.com/webcast
www.adm.com/webcast
Every day, the 28,000 people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) turn crops into renewable products that meet the demands of a growing world. At more than 230 processing plants, we convert corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. We operate the worlds premier crop origination and transportation network, connecting crops and markets in more than 60 countries. Our global headquarters is in Decatur, Illinois, and our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, were $69 billion. For more information about our Company and our products, visit .
www.adm.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 4, 2009
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Segment Operating Analysis (Continued)
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 



