FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20091103134648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
                                                                                                                    
   
   
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
       November 3, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today announced earnings of $ 496 million and net sales of $ 14.9 billion for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.
 
The ADM team executed well, delivering strong sequential earnings growth. said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz.  Earnings were significantly better than the second half of fiscal 2009. As we advance our growth strategy, we are using our financial strength to build shareholder value. Looking ahead, we see demand improving in some key markets, and we have the assets and acumen to capture value as the global economy resets.
 
 
 
 
 Financial Highlights
(Amounts in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 2
 
Strategic Investment Activities
 
 
 
 
New Accounting Standards
Certain amounts in the prior years Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Segment Operating Analysis, Summary of Financial Condition and Summary of Cash Flows have been restated and presentation formats have been modified to apply the requirements of new accounting standards ASC Topic 810 and ASC Topic 470-20. Effective July 1, 2009, the Company adopted this amended guidance which requires retrospective application to all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 3
Discussion of Operations
 
Net sales decreased 29 % to $ 14.9 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange translation impacts. Average selling prices decreased in line with year-over-year declines in underlying commodity costs. There were no material changes in overall sales quantities.
A summary of segment operating profit and net earnings is as follows:
Net earnings attributable to ADM decreased $ 549 million, due principally to the $ 402 million decrease in segment operating profit and the reduced impact on Corporate results of the change in LIFO inventory valuations. Income taxes decreased due principally to decreased pretax earnings, partially offset by an increased effective tax rate resulting from changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings.
Oilseeds Processing Operating Profit
Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $ 226 million. Crushing and origination results declined $ 204 million due to lower production volumes resulting from a short global soybean supply.  Crushing margins and fertilizer results decreased from high prior-year levels as demand was weaker.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit decreased $ 36 million, due principally to lower sales volumes in North America and reduced biodiesel margins in Europe and South America.
Oilseeds results in Asia increased $ 14 million as the Companys investments, principally the equity interest in Wilmar International Limited, continued to perform well. 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 4
Corn Processing Operating Profit
Corn Processing operating profit increased $ 70 million. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $ 129 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs and higher year-over-year average sweetener selling prices.
Bioproducts operating profit decreased $ 59 million. Ethanol selling prices decreased due to lower gasoline prices and decreased gasoline demand. Bioproducts results were also negatively impacted by low lysine selling prices and by increased startup costs related to the Companys industrial chemicals and sugar businesses.
Agricultural Services Operating Profit
Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $ 253 million. Merchandising and handling results were lower than the year-ago quarter due to reduced demand resulting from the weaker global economy and less volatile commodity market conditions. Transportation results declined due to lower barge freight rates and reduced northbound barge activity.
Other Operating Profit
Other operating profit increased $ 7 million. Other processing operating profit increased $ 4 million as improved global wheat milling margins and Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. equity earnings were partially offset by a decline in cocoa processing margins and sales volumes.  Results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, included $12 million of profit related to the Companys malting business which was disposed of on July 31, 2008.
Other financial operating profit increased $ 3 million for the quarter, due to improved captive insurance results partially offset by weaker results of the Companys brokerage services business caused by the low short-term interest rate environment.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 5
Corporate Results
Corporate results decreased $ 367 million. Market prices for LIFO-based inventories were generally lower resulting in a decrease in LIFO inventory reserves of $76 million compared to a $453 million decrease in last years quarter. Investment expense - net increased $ 36 million reflecting a decrease in interest income caused by lower short-term rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. Corporate costs were down $ 25 million as employee-related costs and provisions for doubtful accounts decreased.
 
Conference Call Information
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company will host a conference call and audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. Central Time on Tuesday, November 3, 2009, to discuss financial results and provide a Company update. In addition, a financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call. To listen to the call via the Internet or to download the slide presentation, go to . To listen by telephone, dial 800-901-5247 or 617-786-4501; the access code is 76474255. Replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on November 3 to November 10, 2009. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888; the access code is: 25626820. To listen to the replay online, visit .
www.adm.com/webcast
www.adm.com/webcast
Every day, the 28,000 people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) turn crops into renewable products that meet the demands of a growing world. At more than 230 processing plants, we convert corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. We operate the worlds premier crop origination and transportation network, connecting crops and markets in more than 60 countries. Our global headquarters is in Decatur, Illinois, and our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, were $69 billion. For more information about our Company and our products, visit .
www.adm.com
 
 
November 3, 2009
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
November 3, 2009
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
November 3, 2009
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Summary of Financial Condition
(unaudited)
 
 



