FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20101102155649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549
_____________
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
       November 2, 2010
 
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today reported net earnings of $ 345 million and segment operating profit of $ 765 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, down $ 151 million and $ 9 million, respectively, from the same period one year earlier.
The ADM team performed solidly in both corn and oilseeds with both businesses well positioned to meet demand. Agricultural Services results were impacted by crop supply shifts early in the quarter, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz. As we look at markets today, global demand is generally strong. This presents ADM with the opportunity to grow shareholder value by doing what we do best: use our assets and our acumen to connect crops from regions where theyre available to markets where theyre needed.
Financial Highlights
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 2
 
A summary of segment operating profit and net earnings follows:
Discussion of Operations
Net earnings for the first quarter decreased $ 151 million due primarily to a $ 9 million pretax decrease in segment operating profit and a $ 124 million after-tax negative variance from changing LIFO inventory valuations. The companys effective income tax rate for the quarter was 26 percent, compared to 31 percent for the prior first quarter, mostly due to changes in the geographic mix of earnings.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 3
 
Oilseeds Processing Operating Profit
Oilseeds operating profit increased $ 24 million for the quarter, to a profit of $ 308 million.
Crushing and origination results increased $ 41 million to $ 176 million for the quarter. Crushing volumes increased more than 6 percent over the year-ago quarter, though volumes decreased sequentially. Margins improved overall. North American margins benefitted from good raw-material positioning; South America gained from better origination margins and strong fertilizer results in advance of the planting season; and Europe saw strong softseed margins.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $ 6 million to $ 76 million for the quarter. South American biodiesel continued to improve, driving good margins and volumes in that business.
Oilseeds results in Asia were $ 56 million for the quarter, principally reflecting ADMs share of the results of its equity investee, Wilmar International Limited.
Corn Processing Operating Profit
For the quarter, corn processing results increased $ 153 million to a profit of $ 341 million. Corn processing volumes were up, reflecting the capacity of the companys new dry mills.
Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $ 48 million from the prior year to $ 146 million. This decrease reflects lower average selling prices that were only partially offset by lower net corn costs. Sales volumes were up due to strong export shipments and improved domestic demand for industrial starches.
Bioproducts profit in the quarter was up significantly from last years loss on improved ethanol and lysine margins, a favorable corn ownership position and increased ethanol sales volumes. In the quarter, bioproducts recorded $ 32 million in costs related to the start up of new plants.
Agricultural Services Operating Profit
Agricultural Services results were $ 132 million, $ 43 million below the year-ago quarter.
Merchandising and Handling profit decreased over last year, due primarily to negative impacts from supply shifts early in the quarter as a result of drought conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. These negative impacts were only partially offset by a $ 67 million insurance settlement related to ADMs Destrehan, La., export elevator and by increased volumes driven by the early U.S. harvest. Earnings from transportation operations improved on higher barge-freight rates and volumes which were also driven by the early U.S. harvest.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 4
 
Other Operating Profit
In the first quarter, ADMs Other business units showed a loss of $ 16 million, compared to the year-ago profit of $ 127 million.
Other processing results decreased $ 81 million, with improved results in wheat milling more than offset by lower results in ADMs cocoa operations and lower results from equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Other processing earnings for the quarter included mark-to-market losses of $ 59 millioncompared to gains of $ 17 million in last years first quarterrelated to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives.
Other financial results fell $ 62 million, primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions, principally related to ADMs Destrehan, La., settlement. The company is in the process of working with its reinsurers and expects to recover a significant part of these losses over the next 12 months.
Corporate Results
Corporate results decreased $ 246 million for the quarter. Rising commodity prices generated a $ 123 million increase in ADMs LIFO inventory valuation reserves this quarter, compared to a $ 76 million decrease a year ago. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $ 55 million, including  $ 31 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps and the impact of lower capitalized interest on construction projects.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 5
 
Conference Call Information
ADM will host a conference call and audio webcast at 8 a.m. Central Time on Tuesday,
Nov. 2, 2010, to discuss financial results and provide a company update. A financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call. To listen to the call online or to download the slide presentation, go to . To listen by telephone, dial 866-770-7120 or 617-213-8065; the access code is 76278625. Replay of the call will be available from 11 a.m. Central Time on Nov. 2 to Nov. 9, 2010. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888; the access code is 37728490. To listen to the replay online, visit .    
www.adm.com/webcast
www.adm.com/webcast
About ADM
Every day, the 29,000 people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) turn crops into renewable products that meet the demands of a growing world. At more than 240 processing plants, we convert corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. We operate the worlds premier crop origination and transportation network, connecting crops and markets in more than 60 countries. Our global headquarters is in Decatur, Illinois, and our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, were $62 billion. For more information about our company and our products, visit .
www.adm.com
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 6
 
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 7
 
Segment Operating Profit
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 8
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 9
Summary of Financial Condition
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company - Page 10
 



