FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20100202132313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                                                                                                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EARNINGS OF $ .88 PER SHARE
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today announced earnings of $ 567 million and net sales of $ 15.9 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2009.
 
Im very pleased with the performance of our people and with our results this quarter, said Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz.  While our earnings, in total, were comparable to last years strong second quarter, the market conditions and the mix of earnings were markedly different. This, once again, demonstrates the ability of the ADM team to utilize the geographic scope and diversity of our asset base to create value for our stockholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial Highlights
(Amounts in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 2
 
 
Strategic Investment Activities
To drive earnings growth, the Company advanced its strategy to expand the size and global reach of its core model:
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 3
Discussion of Operations
 
Net sales decreased 5 % to $ 15.9 billion for the quarter and decreased 18 % to $ 30.8 billion for the six months.  For the quarter, decreased average selling prices were offset by increased sales volumes and the impact of foreign exchange translation.  Year-to-date net sales decreased due principally to lower average selling prices.  Average selling prices decreased in line with year-over-year declines in underlying commodity costs. Year-to-date total sales volumes were comparable.
A summary of segment operating profit and net earnings is as follows:
Net earnings attributable to ADM decreased $ 11 million for the quarter primarily due to a $ 177 million pre-tax decline in Corporate results related to the change in LIFO inventory valuations partially offset by increased segment operating profit. Net earnings attributable to ADM decreased $ 560 million for the six months due to lower segment operating profit and lower Corporate results arising from a $ 554 million pre-tax change in LIFO inventory valuations. Income taxes decreased $ 15 million for the quarter and $ 235 million for the six months due principally to lower pre-tax earnings.
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 4
Oilseeds Processing Operating Profit
Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased $ 33 million for the quarter and decreased $ 193 million for the six months. Crushing and origination results increased $ 6 million for the quarter as stronger crush margins in North America and the absence of fertilizer inventory write-downs recognized last year were partially offset by weaker year-over-year European results.  Year-to-date crushing and origination results decreased $ 198 million as margins declined from high prior-year levels due to lower demand for vegetable oil and protein meal.  Global soybean supply shortages resulted in lower production volumes in the early part of this fiscal year.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit decreased $ 10 million for the quarter and $ 46 million for the six months.  Lower European biodiesel margins for the quarter and six months were only partially offset by improved South American refining and biodiesel results.  North American sales volumes and margins decreased for the quarter and six months.
Oilseeds results in Asia increased $ 37 million for the quarter and $ 51 million for the six months as the Companys investments, principally its equity interest in Wilmar International Limited, continued to perform well.
Corn Processing Operating Profit
Corn Processing operating profit increased $ 261 million for the quarter and $ 331 million for the six months. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $31 million for the quarter and $ 160 million for the six months due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs partially offset by lower sales volumes.
Bioproducts operating profit increased $ 230 million for the quarter and $ 171 million for the six months due to improved ethanol margins and higher sales volumes resulting from lower net corn costs, decreased manufacturing costs, and favorable gasoline blending economics.  Bioproducts operating profit for the quarter also reflected increased sales volumes and margins for lysine, increased citric acid margins, and increased startup costs related to the Companys new industrial chemicals plants, ethanol dry mills, sugarcane processing plant, and new co-generation facilities.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 5
Agricultural Services Operating Profit
Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $ 312 million for the quarter and $ 565 million for the six months.  Merchandising and handling results decreased $282 million for the quarter and $ 510 million for the six months. Demand for exports of U.S. soybeans was strong during the quarter. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur during the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2009.
Transportation results decreased $ 30 million for the quarter and $ 55 million for the six months due to lower barge freight rates and decreased utilization levels resulting from the late, extended North American harvest.
Other Operating Profit
Other operating profit increased $ 173 million for the quarter and $ 180 million for the six months. Other processing operating profit increased $ 108 million for the quarter and $ 112 million for the six months due to increased equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma S.A.B de C.V., improved global wheat milling margins, and increased cocoa processing earnings.  Other processing earnings for the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2009 include mark-to-market gains of $ 46 million and $ 69 million, respectively related to certain forward sales commitments accounted for as derivatives.
 
 
Other financial operating profit increased $ 65 million for the quarter and $ 68 million for the six months due to the absence of losses experienced last year by the Companys captive insurance business and improved results of the Companys brokerage services business.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 6
Corporate Results
Corporate results decreased $ 188 million for the quarter and $ 555 million for the six months.  Market prices for LIFO-based inventories were generally higher for the quarter resulting in a $ 54 million increase in LIFO inventory reserves compared to a $ 123 million decrease in last years quarter. LIFO inventory reserves decreased $ 22 million for the six months ended December 31, 2009, compared to a $ 576 million decrease in the same period last year.  Interest expense - net increased $ 29 million for the quarter and $ 66 million for the six months reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short-term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments.  Corporate costs for the quarter increased $ 35 million due to higher employee-related costs and commercial services expenses.  Year-to-date corporate costs increased primarily due to higher commercial services expenses. Other principally represents the elimination of after-tax earnings of minority interests.
 
New Accounting Standards
 
Certain amounts in the prior years Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Segment Operating Analysis, Summary of Financial Condition, and Summary of Cash Flows have been restated and presentation formats have been modified to apply the requirements of new accounting standards ASC Topic 810, and ASC Topic 470-20, .  Effective July 1, 2009, the Company adopted this amended guidance which requires retrospective application to all periods presented.
Consolidation
Debt with Conversion and Other Options
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Page 7
 
 
Conference Call Information
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company will host a conference call and audio webcast at 8:30 a.m. Central Time on Tuesday, February 2, 2010, to discuss financial results and provide a Company update. A financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call. To listen to the call via the Internet or to download the slide presentation, go to . To listen by telephone, dial 800-299-7635 or 617-786-2901; the access code is 75645282. Replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Central Time on February 2 to February 9, 2010. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888; the access code is 72817894. To listen to the replay online, visit .
www.adm.com/webcast
www.adm.com/webcast
About ADM
Every day, the 28,000 people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) turn crops into renewable products that meet the demands of a growing world. At more than 230 processing plants, we convert corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. We operate the worlds premier crop origination and transportation network, connecting crops and markets in more than 60 countries. Our global headquarters is in Decatur, Illinois, and our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, were $69 billion. For more information about our Company and our products, visit .
www.adm.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2010
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2010
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2010



