FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20110503143338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
       May 3, 2011
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today reported third-quarter net earnings of $ 578 million and quarterly segment operating profit of $ 1.0 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, up $ 157 million and $ 310 million, respectively, from the same period one year earlier.
The ADM team performed very well. Against a backdrop of volatile commodity prices, a challenging margin environment and geopolitical instability in the Middle East, North Africa and Cte dIvoire, our team worked smart and hard and delivered strong results, said Patricia Woertz, ADM chairman and CEO. As we look ahead, we are monitoring the planting and growing season in North America and Europe. Overall, global demand for crops and agricultural products remains relatively strong. In these conditions, ADM will use our unique global asset base and strong balance sheet to serve vital needs, efficiently connecting the worlds growers with the worlds buyers, and delivering value for our customers and our shareholders.
Financial Highlights
 
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 2
A summary of segment operating profit and net earnings follows:
Discussion of Net Earnings
Net earnings for the third quarter of $ 578 million increased $ 157 million due principally to a  $ 310 million increase in segment operating profit. This increase was partially offset by changes in LIFO inventory valuations, included in corporate, caused by higher agricultural commodity prices. Earnings before income taxes include a LIFO charge of $ 43 million this quarter, decreasing EPS by $ 0.04, compared to a LIFO gain of $ 43 million last year, which increased EPS by $ 0.04.
The fully diluted EPS calculation was impacted by the completion of the companys debt remarketing related to the Equity Units issued in 2008. While 44 million new common shares will be issued on June 1, the accounting requirement to use the if converted method assumes the company issued the shares at the beginning of the fiscal third quarter, and this assumption results in a $(0.05) per share impact for this quarter.
The companys effective income tax rate for the quarter was 28 percent, compared to the prior years third quarter rate of 22 percent. Last years effective tax rate included an adjustment to the quarterly rate to bring the cumulative effective tax rate for the year-to-date into line with the lower fiscal year forecast.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 3
Oilseeds Processing
Oilseeds operating profit in the third quarter increased $ 107 million to $ 512 million.
Crushing and origination operating profit increased $ 133 million to $ 405 million for the quarter. Favorable ownership and strong North American results offset a decline from South America. European results increased significantly, principally on the reversal of mark-to-market timing effects.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other generated a profit of $ 89 million for the quarter, up $ 23 million from last year, as improved results from North and South America offset lower results from Europe.
Oilseeds results in Asia declined $ 49 million to $ 18 million for the quarter, principally reflecting ADMs share of the weaker results from its equity investee, Wilmar International Limited.
Corn Processing
For the quarter, corn processing operating profit increased $ 100 million to a profit of  $ 204 million. Processed volumes were up 13 percent, reflecting increased production at the companys corn processing plants, including the two new ethanol dry mills.
Sweeteners and starches operating profit of $ 46 million was essentially flat, as higher average selling prices and volumes were mostly offset by higher net corn costs. Export demand for sweetener remained strong, and U.S. demand for industrial starches improved.
Bioproducts profit in the quarter rose $ 99 million to $ 158 million, driven by favorable corn ownership and strong demand for value-added food and feed ingredients, particularly lysine.
Agricultural Services
Agricultural Services operating profit of $ 171 million increased $ 6 million from last years results.
The global merchandising and handling team delivered good results, comparable to last year, amid a challenging environment of significant volatility in agricultural commodity markets, regional instability in the Middle East and North Africa, and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. U.S. export volumes and margins remained strong in the quarter.
Earnings from transportation operations improved on higher barge-freight rates.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 4
 
Other
In the third quarter, profits from ADMs Other business units increased $ 97 million to $ 119 million.
In other processing, profits in wheat milling and cocoa operations were $ 96 million, an increase of $ 87 million from the year-ago quarter, which included large mark-to-market charges in the cocoa operations. During the quarter, cocoa operations in Cte dIvoire were suspended, and ADM met customer needs through its global cocoa processing network.
Other financial increased $ 10 million mainly due to improved results of ADMs captive insurance subsidiary and ADM Investor Services.
Corporate
Corporate results decreased $ 53 million principally due to an $ 86 million change in LIFO reserves and higher corporate costs. Last years third quarter included a $ 75 million charge relating to debt repurchase.
Current Market Conditions
Overall global economic conditions are being impacted by significant geopolitical developments, rising energy costs and evolving monetary and fiscal policies. These elements have the potential to temper global economic growth.
Regional crop supply imbalances are resulting in elevated prices and significant volatility. South America is harvesting a near-record soybean crop and has sufficient supply. In North America, the carryouts of corn and soybeans are projected to be tight, and farmers are beginning to plant. The global wheat supply is ample, and canola and rapeseed supplies vary by region.
Global demand for crops and agricultural products continues to grow. Global protein meal demand is firm. North American corn sweetener volumes are higher, led by Mexico. Ethanol consumption in the U.S. remains at maximum blendable levels, and global biodiesel demand is growing.
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 5
 
Conference Call Information
ADM will host a conference call and audio webcast at 8:30 a.m. Central Time on Tuesday,
May 3, 2011, to discuss financial results and provide a company update. A financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call. To listen to the call online or to download the slide presentation, go to . To listen by telephone, dial 866-356-4123 or 617-597-5393; the access code is 48899048. Replay of the call will be available from 11:00 a.m. Central Time on May 3 to May 10, 2011. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial 888-286-8010 or 617-801-6888; the access code is 37235690. To listen to the replay online, visit .
www.adm.com/webcast
www.adm.com/webcast
About ADM
Every day, the 29,000 people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) turn crops into renewable products that meet the demands of a growing world. At more than 240 processing plants, we convert corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. We operate the worlds premier crop origination and transportation network, connecting crops and markets in more than 60 countries. Our global headquarters is in Decatur, Illinois, and our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, were $62 billion. For more information about our company and our products, visit .
www.adm.com
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 6
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 7
 
Segment Operating Profit and Corporate Results
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 8
 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 9
Summary of Financial Condition
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Archer Daniels Midland Company  Page 10
 



