FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20121030142039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
       October 30, 2012
 
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
DECATUR, Ill., Oct. 30, 2012  Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today reported financial results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2012. The company reported net earnings for the quarter of $182 million, or $0.28 per share, down from $0.68 per share in the same period one year earlier. Adjusted earnings per share were $0.50, primarily reflecting a $0.16 charge related to ADMs planned divestment of Gruma. Segment operating profit was $498 million, including a $146 million charge related to Gruma.
1
1
Our first-quarter segment results were mixed, said ADM Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz. Oilseeds performance was strong, the ethanol industry experienced sustained negative margins, and Agricultural Services managed well through a complicated quarter, challenged by the drought.
During the first quarter, we focused on actions that will improve returns. We made progress in our ongoing portfolio management efforts. And Im proud of our efforts and the results of our work to reduce costs and capital.
 
As we look ahead to 2013, we are bringing online our large Paraguay soybean processing plant as South American farmers are responding to market conditions with record plantings, and we are implementing plans to navigate the tight U.S. crop supply.
Longer-term, we remain optimistic as we see continued growth in global demand for protein meal and other agricultural products. We continue to execute our strategy, aligning our business to serve rising demand from customers around the world.
First Quarter 2012.5 Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP financial measures, see pages 5 and 10 for explanations and reconciliations
1
 
 
 
Adjusted EPS of 50 Cents, down 8 Cents
Adjusted EPS decreased primarily due to lower segment operating profit.
This quarters effective tax rate was 38 percent and included special factors. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate was 30 percent, in line with last years first quarter.
Oilseeds Earnings Improve Across All Three Regions
Oilseeds operating profit in the first quarter was $336 million, up $116 million from the same period one year earlier.
Crushing and origination operating profit was $256 million, up $150 million from the year-ago quarter on strong improvements by all three geographies. ADMs U.S. soybean operations delivered very strong results amid good U.S. demand and meal exports. In Europe, soybean and rapeseed crushing earnings improved significantly.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other generated a profit of $28 million for the quarter, down
$27 million, with steady results in North and South America offset by weaker European biodiesel results.
Cocoa and other results increased $27 million. Weaker cocoa press margins were offset by the absence of last years significant negative mark-to-market impacts.
Oilseeds results in Asia for the quarter were down $34 million from the prior years first quarter, principally reflecting ADMs share of the results from its equity investee Wilmar International Limited.
Corn Processing Results Weak on Continued Ethanol Industry Challenges
Corn processing operating profit was $68 million, a decrease of $115 million from the same period one year earlier.
Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $64 million to $94 million, as tight sweetener industry capacity supported higher year-over-year selling prices. The year-ago quarters results were negatively impacted by higher net corn costs related to the timing effects of economic hedges.
Bioproducts results in the quarter decreased $179 million to a loss of $26 million. Weak U.S. ethanol exports, strong Brazilian imports and slow E15 implementation kept industry margins negative.
 
 
 
Agricultural Services Down From Strong Prior-Year Results
Agricultural Services operating profit excluding the Gruma charge was $224 million, down $99 million from the same period one year earlier.
Merchandising and handling earnings fell $101 million to $108 million, mostly due to weaker U.S. merchandising results impacted by the smaller U.S. harvest.
Transportation results decreased $9 million to $19 million impacted by low barge freight utilization driven by reduced corn exports.
Milling and other results increased $11 million, excluding the Gruma charge. Milling results remained strong, and ADM Alliance Nutrition saw improved margins amid stronger demand.
Other Financial Results Improve
Operating profit from ADMs Other Financial businesses was $16 million, up $21 million, with improved results from captive insurance and ADM Investor Services.
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
ADM will host a conference call and audio webcast Tuesday, Oct. 30, 2012, at 8 a.m. Central Time to discuss financial results and provide a company update. A financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call.
To listen to the call via the Internet or to download the slide presentation, go to www.adm.com/webcast. To listen by telephone, dial (888) 522-5398 in the U.S. or (706) 902-2121 if calling from outside the U.S. The access code is 31529634.
A replay of the call will be available from Oct. 31, 2012 to Nov. 6, 2012. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial (855) 859-2056 in the U.S. or (404) 537-3406 if calling from outside the U.S. The access code is 31529634. To listen to the replay online, visit www.adm.com/webcast.
About ADM
For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) have transformed crops into products that serve vital needs. Today, 30,000 ADM employees around the globe convert oilseeds, corn, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses. With more than 270 processing plants, 420 crop procurement facilities, and the worlds premier crop transportation network, ADM helps connect the harvest to the home in more than 160 countries. For more information about ADM and its products, visit www.adm.com.
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Media Relations Contact
David Weintraub
217-424-5413
Investor Relations Contact
Ruth Ann Wisener
217-451-8286
 
 
 
 
Segment Operating Profit and Corporate Results
(1)
(unaudited)
A non-GAAP financial measure
 
Total segment operating profit is ADMs consolidated income from operations before income tax that excludes certain corporate items. Management believes that segment operating profit is a useful measure of ADMs performance because it provides investors information about ADMs business unit performance excluding certain corporate overhead costs. Total segment operating profit is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not intended to replace earnings before income tax, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Total segment operating profit is not a measure of consolidated operating results under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to income before income taxes or any other measure of consolidated operating results under U.S. GAAP.
Beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, ADM realigned segment operating profit to reflect a change in how the company manages its businesses. As a result, ADM now reports Cocoa processing results as part of a new category in Oilseeds called Cocoa and Other and Milling results in an Agricultural Services category called Milling and Other. In addition, beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, the company discontinued the allocation of working capital interest to the operating segments. Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
(1)
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Financial Condition
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
A non-GAAP financial measure
(unaudited)
 
Adjusted EPS is ADMs fully diluted EPS after removal of the effect on Reported EPS of certain specified items as more fully described above. Management believes that Adjusted EPS is a useful measure of ADMs performance because it provides investors additional information about ADMs operations allowing better evaluation of ongoing business performance. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not intended to replace or be an alternative to EPS, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, or any other measures of operating results under GAAP. Earnings amounts in the tables above have been divided by the companys diluted shares outstanding for each respective quarter in order to arrive at an adjusted EPS amount for each specified item.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



