FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20120113151457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On January 11, 2012, Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the "Company") committed to a planned reduction of its salaried workforce. Please see Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated into this Item 2.05 by reference for additional information regarding this event. All of the pre-tax charge described in the release is expected to result in future cash expenditures.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
On January 9, 2012, the Company determined that a charge for impairment would be taken by the Company due to a change in circumstances and certain actions taken by the Company impacting its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. and Telles, LLC, the Company's joint venture with Metabolix. Please see Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated into this Item 2.06 by reference for additional information regarding this event.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed or furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DECATUR, Ill., Jan. 11, 2012  Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) announced today that it will streamline its organizational structure, reducing its global workforce to enhance the cost structure of the company. Approximately 1,000 positions, primarily salaried, will be eliminated, representing 3 percent of the company's total workforce worldwide. To help achieve this reduction, the company will offer a voluntary early retirement incentive in the U.S. ADM expects that these actions, in concert with other targeted cost reductions, will, when fully implemented, reduce its annual pre-tax expenses by more than $100 million.
"To ensure that we can continue to compete effectively in our global markets, we are taking actions to streamline our organization and achieve significant, sustained cost reductions," said Patricia Woertz, ADM chairman and chief executive officer. "These actions will help us enhance our productivity and earnings power."
The company hopes to achieve a significant portion of the position reductions through the voluntary retirement incentive and will offer severance and outplacement assistance to other affected employees.
In its fiscal 2012 third quarter, ADM expects to record a $50 million to $75 million pre-tax charge related to these actions. The company expects to begin benefiting from the cost reduction actions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, with the full benefit recognized by the end of third quarter fiscal 2013.
"These decisions do not reflect on the talent or dedication of our ADM team," Woertz said. "They reflect our confidence that we can streamline our organization while maintaining our ability to grow profitability, as well as our commitment to customers and to operational excellence."
About ADM
For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) have transformed crops into products that serve vital needs. Today, 30,000 ADM employees around the globe convert oilseeds, corn, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses. With more than 265 processing plants, 400 crop procurement facilities, and the world's premier crop transportation network, ADM helps connect the harvest to the home in more than 160 countries. For more information about ADM and its products, visit www.adm.com.
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Media Relations
Jessie McKinney
media@adm.com
217-424-5413

Exhibit 99.2
 
DECATUR, Ill., Jan. 12, 2012  Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) announced today that ADM Polymer Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM, will end its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. on February 8, 2012. As a result of this decision, Telles LLC, the sales and marketing commercial alliance created to commercialize Mirel, a biobased plastic, will be dissolved, and Mirel production on behalf of Telles will end. Under the terms of their commercial alliance, ADM Polymer Corporation may provide PHA fermentation services for Metabolix during a three-year period following termination.
"We have analyzed our business portfolio, identifying areas that are not delivering sufficient results now or are not expected to deliver sufficient results within a reasonable timeframe," said Mark Bemis, president, Corn. "We have had a good working relationship with Metabolix, and the fermentation technology performed well at our facility. Unfortunately, uncertainty around projected capital and production costs, combined with the rate of market adoption, led to projected financial returns for ADM that are too uncertain. Therefore, we have decided to exit the business as permitted by the commercial alliance agreement with Metabolix."
ADM Polymer has been producing Mirel at ADM's integrated corn processing complex facility in Clinton, Iowa. There are currently approximately 90 full-time ADM Polymer employees at the Clinton polymer plant; in addition, there are a small number of ADM employees supporting the Telles sales and marketing efforts in Europe. ADM is currently evaluating the impact on staffing, and will make decisions on its needs as quickly as possible. For colleagues whose positions are affected, the company will offer severance packages, including outplacement services, and there may be opportunities for them to apply for positions at Clinton or other ADM facilities.
As a result of the change in circumstances and its decision to terminate the commercial alliance, ADM is evaluating other commercially viable uses for the fermentation assets in Clinton, but has not yet made any firm decision on alternative uses. As a result, ADM will record a one-time pretax charge in its second quarter of between $300 million and $360 million, primarily for impairment of the related production assets. ADM anticipates the cash portion of the total charge to be less than $5 million.
About ADM
For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) have transformed crops into products that serve vital needs. Today, 30,000 ADM employees around the globe convert oilseeds, corn, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses. With more than 265 processing plants, 400 crop procurement facilities, and the world's premier crop transportation network, ADM helps connect the harvest to the home in more than 160 countries. For more information about ADM and its products, visit www.adm.com.
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Media Relations
Jessie McKinney
media@adm.com
217-424-5413


