FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20121016173202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2012, Archer-Daniels-Midland Company ("ADM") issued a press release announcing the final results of its private exchange offers.
On October 16, 2012, ADM issued $570,425,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.016% Debentures due 2043 (the "New Debentures") in exchange for specified series of ADM's outstanding debt securities, in connection with the expiration of its previously announced exchange offers. The New Debentures were issued to qualified institutional buyers ("QIBs") pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
The New Debentures were issued under an indenture, dated as of October 16, 2012, between ADM and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Indenture"), attached as Exhibit 4.1 hereto. The New Debentures will pay interest on April 16 and October 16 of each year, beginning April 16, 2013, at a rate of 4.016% per annum. The New Debentures are ADM's senior obligations and rank equally with all of its other unsecured indebtedness. The New Debentures are subject to optional redemption prior to maturity. The New Debentures issuable to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act were issued in the form of registered global securities in the form of debentures attached as Exhibit 4.2 hereto (the "Rule 144A Global Debenture"), and the New Debentures issuable to non-U.S. persons pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act were issued in the form of registered global securities in the form of debentures attached as Exhibit 4.3 hereto (the "Regulation S Global Debenture"). The description of the Indenture and the New Debentures contained herein is qualified by reference to the terms of the Indenture and form of Rule 144A Global Debenture and form of Regulation S Global Debenture, respectively.
On October 16, 2012, in connection with the issuance of the New Debentures, ADM entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with the dealer managers for the exchange offers named therein. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, ADM has agreed to file an exchange offer registration statement with the Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC") to allow holders of the New Debentures to exchange such New Debentures for an equal principal amount of debentures with substantially identical terms, except that they will generally be freely transferable under the Securities Act. In addition, ADM has agreed pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, under certain circumstances, to file a shelf registration statement with the SEC to cover resales of the New Debentures. If ADM fails to satisfy these obligations, it will be required to pay additional interest as liquidated damages to the holders of the New Debentures. The Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.4, and the description of the Registration Rights Agreement contained herein is qualified by reference thereto.
The New Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. Therefore, the New Debentures may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, dated as of October 16, 2012, between ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), having its principal office at 4666 Faries Parkway, Decatur, Illinois 62525, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York corporation, as Trustee under the Indenture hereinafter defined (the "Trustee").
INDENTURE
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee desire to execute an indenture (this "Indenture") to provide for the issuance from time to time of the Company's unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series; and
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture and all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that, for and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders hereinafter defined of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 101. Definitions.
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, or by Commission rule or regulation under the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP; and
(4) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"" when used with respect to any Holder of a Security, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
Act,
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means, at any date as of which the amount thereof is to be determined, the sum of attributable debt relating to capital leases and operating leases under which any Person is liable. The amount of attributable debt relating to capital leases is the balance sheet liability amount (capital lease obligations and current portion thereof) in respect of such capital leases as determined under GAAP. The amount of attributable debt relating to operating leases is the amount of future minimum lease payments under such operating leases required to be disclosed by GAAP, less any executory costs, discounted using the methodology used to calculate the present value of operating lease payments in the Company's most recent Annual Report to Shareholders that reflects such a calculation. "Executory costs" mean amounts required to be paid on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges. In the case of any operating lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall include the lesser of (a) the rental payments to be paid under such lease until the first date (after the date of such determination) upon which it may be so terminated plus the then applicable penalty upon such termination, or (b) the rental payments required to be paid during the remaining term of such lease (assuming such termination provision is not exercised).
Attributable Debt
"" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
Authenticating Agent
"" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
Authorized Newspaper
"" means any Security in the form established pursuant to Section 201 which is payable to bearer.
Bearer Security
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or the executive or any other committee of that board duly authorized to act in respect hereof.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. Where any provision of this Indenture refers to action to be taken pursuant to a Board Resolution (including the establishment of any series of Securities and the forms and terms thereof), such action may be taken by any committee of the Board of Directors of the Company authorized to take such action by a Board Resolution, so long as a copy is provided of both the committee resolution and the Board resolution authorizing the committee to take such action.
Board Resolution
 
"" when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions and trust companies in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day,
"" means, as to shares of a Corporation, outstanding shares of stock of any class whether now or hereafter authorized, irrespective of whether such class shall be limited to a fixed sum or percentage in respect of the rights of the holders thereof to participate in dividends and in the distribution of assets upon the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such Corporation.
Capital Stock
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme.
Clearstream
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller or an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
"" means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof constituting Funded Debt by reason of being renewable or extendible) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles to the extent not deducted as reserves and deductible items as set forth above, all as set forth on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office as of the date hereof is 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business trust.
Corporation
"" means any interest coupon appertaining to a Bearer Security.
Coupon
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1011.
Covenant Defeasance
"" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
Defaulted Interest
"" has the meaning specified in Section 403.
Defeasance
"" or "" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System.
Euroclear
"" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means (i) all Indebtedness which by its terms matures more than 12 months after the time of the computation of the amount thereof or which is extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor on such Indebtedness to a time more than 12 months after the time of the computation of the amount thereof, (ii) all guarantees, direct or indirect, of any such Indebtedness or of dividends, other than any guarantee in connection with the sale or discount by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of accounts receivable, trade acceptances and other paper arising in the ordinary course of business, and (iii) in the case of any Subsidiary, all Preferred Stock of such Subsidiary, taken at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation price at the time of any calculation hereunder, but exclusive of accrued dividends, if any; that in determining the amount of Funded Debt of the Company or any Subsidiary there shall not be included any amount in respect of obligations under leases, or guarantees of obligations under leases, whether or not such obligations or guarantees are shown on a balance sheet as liability items.
Funded Debt
provided, however,
"" means, as of the date of any determination with respect thereto, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as used by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and/or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, consistently applied and maintained throughout the periods indicated ("U.S. GAAP"); , that (i) if the Company elects to rely on either of the two provisos immediately following clause (1)(y) of Section 704 to satisfy its obligations thereunder in accordance with the terms of Section 704, then "GAAP" shall mean (x) if the financial statements of the Person (as such term is referenced in Section 704) contained in the applicable information, documents and reports are not required to be reconciled by the rules and regulations of the Commission, the financial reporting standards on which such financial statements are based, consistently applied and maintained throughout the periods indicated, or (y) if the financial statements of the Person (as such term is referenced in Section 704) contained in the applicable information, documents and reports are required to be reconciled by the rules and regulations of the Commission, the financial reporting standards on which such financial statements are based, consistently applied and maintained throughout the periods indicated and taking into account any adjustments required to reconcile such financial statements in accordance with such rules and regulations, or (ii) at the election of the Company, if the financial statements of the Company contained in the information, documents and reports filed by the Company pursuant to Section 704 are prepared in accordance with financial reporting standards acceptable to the Commission (other than U.S. GAAP), then "GAAP shall mean (I) if such financial statements are not required to be reconciled by the rules and regulations of the Commission, such financial
GAAP
provided, however
 
reporting standards, consistently applied and maintained throughout the periods indicated, or (II) if such financial statements are required to be reconciled by the rules and regulations of the Commission, such financial reporting standards, consistently applied and maintained throughout the periods indicated and taking into account any adjustments required to reconcile such financial statements in accordance with such rules and regulations.
"" when used with respect to any Security, means in the case of a Registered Security the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register and in the case of a Bearer Security (or any temporary global Security) the bearer thereof and, when used with respect to any Coupon, means the bearer thereof.
Holder,
"" means (i) all items of indebtedness or liability (except capital and surplus) which in accordance with GAAP would be included in determining total liabilities as shown on the liability side of a balance sheet as at the date as of which indebtedness is to be determined and (ii) guarantees, endorsements (other than for purposes of collection) and other contingent obligations in respect of, or to purchase or otherwise acquire, indebtedness of others, unless the amount thereof is included in indebtedness under the preceding clause (i); that any obligations or guarantees of obligations in respect of lease rentals, whether or not such obligations or guarantees of obligations would be included as liabilities on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, shall not be included in Indebtedness.
Indebtedness
provided, however,
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
Indenture
"" when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
Interest,
"" when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity Date of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date,
"" when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity Date or by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity,
"" means and includes any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest, conditional sale or other title retention agreement or other similar encumbrance.
Mortgage
"" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of the Company, or other counsel who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
Original Issue Discount Security
"" when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, :
Outstanding,
except
(i) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any Coupons thereto appertaining; , if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
provided that
(iii) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or whether a quorum is present at a meeting of Holders of Securities, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a foreign currency or currencies shall be the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in (i) above) of such Security, and (iii) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided, however,
"" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) or any interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
 
"" means any individual, Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 1002, the principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
Place of Payment,
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or the Security to which the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains, as the case may be.
Predecessor Security
"," as applied to the Capital Stock of any Corporation, means stock of any class or classes (however designated) which is preferred as to the payment of dividends, or as to the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution of such Corporation, over shares of stock of any other class of such Corporation.
Preferred Stock
"" means any building, structure or other facility (which for purposes of this definition shall not include barges, railroad cars or other transportation equipment, vehicles or vessels), together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, used primarily for manufacturing, processing or warehousing and located in the United States, owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary, the gross book value (without deduction of any depreciation reserves) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeds 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, other than any such building, structure or other facility or portion thereof or any such land or fixture (i) which is financed by obligations issued by a State, a Territory, or a possession of the United States, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia, the interest on which is excludable from gross income of the holders thereof pursuant to the provisions of Section 103(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor to such provision) as in effect at the time of the issuance of such obligations, or (ii) which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries as an entirety.
Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property
"" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date,
"" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price,
"" means any Security in the form established pursuant to Section 201 which is registered in the Security Register.
Registered Security
 
"" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
Regular Record Date
"" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee assigned by it to administer its corporate trust matters and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer,
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company except a Subsidiary (a) which neither transacts any substantial portion of its business nor regularly maintains any substantial portion of its fixed assets within the United States, or (b) which is engaged primarily in financing the operations of the Company or its Subsidiaries, or both.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means any Funded Debt which is secured by a Mortgage upon any assets of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including in such assets, without limitation, shares of stock or Indebtedness of any Subsidiary owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary.
Secured Funded Debt
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
"" and "" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
Security Register
Security Registrar
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
Special Record Date
"" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security or a Coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity Date
"" means a Corporation more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed, except as provided in Section 905.
Trust Indenture Act
"" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United States
 
"" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more permanent global Securities, the Person designated as U.S. Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 301, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, as amended, until a successor U.S. Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "U.S. Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a U.S. Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "U.S. Depositary" shall mean the U.S. Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
U.S. Depositary
"" means direct obligations of the United States for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged, or obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States and the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligations or a specific payment of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligations held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligations or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligations evidenced by such depository receipt.
U.S. Government Obligations
provided
"" when used with respect to the Company, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
Vice President,
"" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Voting Stock
"" means any Restricted Subsidiary all the outstanding Funded Debt and Capital Stock of which, other than directors' qualifying shares, is owned by the Company and its other Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiaries.
Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary
SECTION 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Indenture, upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (except for certificates provided for in Section 1009) shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or her to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
SECTION 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104. Acts of Holders.
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of any series may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or
 
other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of such series may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities of such series voting in favor thereof, either in person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Thirteen, or a combination of such instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments and so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1306.
Without limiting the generality of this Section 104, unless otherwise established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution or set forth or determined in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, pursuant to Section 301, a Holder, including a U.S. Depositary that is a Holder of a permanent global Security, may make, give or take, by a proxy, or proxies, duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders, and a U.S. Depositary that is a Holder of a permanent global Security may provide its proxy or proxies to the beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security through such U.S. Depositary's standing instructions and customary practices.
The Trustee shall fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons who are beneficial owners of interests in any permanent global Security held by a U.S. Depositary entitled under the procedures of such U.S. Depositary to make, give or take, by a proxy or proxies duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders. If such a record date is fixed, the Holders on such record date or their duly appointed proxy or proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to make, give or take such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. No such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be valid or effective if made, given or taken more than 90 days after such record date.
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d) The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary,
 
wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described, or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such Bearer Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Company may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding. The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
SECTION 105. Notices, Etc., to the Trustee and the Company.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, to the attention of its Secretary, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; , that (a) the party providing such electronic instructions or directions, subsequent to the transmission thereof, shall provide the originally executed instructions or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner and (b) such originally executed instructions or directions shall be signed by an authorized representative of the party providing such instructions or directions. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions or directions notwithstanding such instructions or directions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction or direction or if the subsequent written instruction or direction is never received. The party providing instructions or directions by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods, as aforesaid, agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk of interception and misuse by third parties.
provided, however
 
SECTION 106. Notice to Holders of Securities; Waiver.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Securities of any event,
(1) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Registered Securities if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of a Registered Security affected by such event, at his or her address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice; and
(2) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Bearer Securities if published in an Authorized Newspaper in the City of New York and in such other city or cities as may be specified in such Securities on a Business Day at least twice, the first such publication to be not earlier than the earliest date, and not later than the latest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice to Holders of Registered Securities by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Registered Security shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities given as provided herein.
In case by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, then such notification to Holders of Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither the failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Registered Securities given as provided herein.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
SECTION 107. Language of Notices, Etc.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
SECTION 108. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
SECTION 109. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 110. Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 111. Separability Clause.
In case any provision in this Indenture or the Securities or Coupons shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 112. Benefits of Indenture.
Nothing in this Indenture or the Securities or Coupons, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities and Coupons, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
SECTION 113. Exemption from Individual Liability.
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor Corporation, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations of the Company, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers or directors, as such, of the Company or any successor Corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or
 
statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied, therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of such Securities.
SECTION 114. Governing Law; Waiver of Trial by Jury.
This Indenture and the Securities and Coupons shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
SECTION 115. Legal Holidays.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity Date of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities or Coupons other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity Date, provided that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity Date, as the case may be.
SECTION 116. Counterparts.
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture.
SECTION 201. Forms Generally.
The Registered Securities, if any, of each series and the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related Coupons shall be in substantially the forms established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing
 
such Securities or Coupons, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities or Coupons. If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form as permitted by Section 304, the form thereof shall be established as provided in the preceding sentence. If the forms of Securities or Coupons of any series (or any such temporary global Security) are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities (or any such temporary global Security) or Coupons.
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities shall have Coupons attached.
The definitive Securities and Coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or Coupons.
SECTION 202. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 203. Securities in Global Form.
If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (10) of Section 301 and the provisions of Section 302, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver
 
and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 201 and 307, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of and any premium and interest on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
SECTION 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate (which shall comply with Section 102), or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
(3) whether Securities of the series are to be issuable as Registered Securities, Bearer Securities or both; if Securities are to be issuable as Bearer Securities, the form of any required certifications; whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form; and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form with or without Coupons and, if so, (i) whether beneficial owners
 
of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305, and (ii) the name of the Common Depositary (as defined in Section 304) or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be, with respect to any global Security;
(4) the Person to whom any interest on any Registered Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, the manner in which, or the Person to whom, any interest on any Bearer Security of the series shall be payable, if otherwise than upon presentation and surrender of the Coupons appertaining thereto as they severally mature, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304;
(5) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable and whether such date or dates may be extended at the option of the Company;
(6) the rate or rates (or formula for determining such rate or rates) at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable, the Regular Record Date for any interest payable on any Registered Securities on any Interest Payment Date and the circumstances, if any, in which the Company may defer interest payments;
(7) whether the interest rate or interest rate formula, as the case may be, for Securities of the series may be reset at the option of the Company and, if so, the date or dates on which such interest rate or interest rate formula, as the case may be, may be reset;
(8) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 1002, the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, any Registered Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange and notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
(9) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company or repaid at the option of the Holders;
(10) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(11) the denominations in which any Registered Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, and the denomination or denominations in which any Bearer Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than the denomination of $5,000;
(12) the currency or currencies, including composite currencies, in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of the series shall be payable if other than the currency of the United States;
(13) if the amount of payments of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(14) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of any Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
(15) any additional Events of Default or restrictive covenants with respect to Securities of such series which are not set forth herein and the applicability, if any, of the provisions of Section 1010 or Section 1011 to such covenants; and
(16) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series and the Coupons appertaining to any Bearer Securities of such series shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
Notwithstanding Section 301(2) herein and unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Securities, the aggregate principal amount of a series of Securities may be increased and additional Securities of such series may be issued up to the maximum aggregate principal amount authorized with respect to such series as increased.
SECTION 302. Denominations.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any Registered Securities of a series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof and any Bearer Securities of a series shall be issuable in the denomination of $5,000.
 
SECTION 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. Coupons shall bear the facsimile signature of the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company.
Securities and Coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series, together with any Coupons appertaining thereto, executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; that, in connection with its original issuance, no Bearer Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States; and that a Bearer Security may be delivered in connection with its original issuance only if the Person entitled to receive such Bearer Security shall have furnished a certificate in the form designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301, dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the earlier of the date on which such Bearer Security is delivered and the date on which any temporary Security first becomes exchangeable for such Bearer Security in accordance with the terms of such temporary Security and this Indenture. If any Security shall be represented by a permanent global Bearer Security, then, for purposes of this Section and Section 304, the notation of a beneficial owner's interest therein upon original issuance of such Security or upon exchange of a portion of a temporary global Security shall be deemed to be delivery in connection with its original issuance of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security. Except as permitted by Section 304 or 306, the Trustee shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant Coupons then matured have been detached and cancelled.
provided, however,
provided, further,
If the forms or terms of the Securities of the series and any related Coupons have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
(a) if the forms of such Securities and any Coupons have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such forms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(b) if the terms of such Securities and any Coupons have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
 
(c) that such Securities, together with any Coupons appertaining thereto, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles; and
(d) such other matters as the Trustee may reasonably request.
If such forms or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, and each Bearer Security and any temporary Bearer Security in global form shall be dated as of the date of original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
No Security or Coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 304. Temporary Securities.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more Coupons or without
 
Coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. In the case of any series issuable as Bearer Securities, such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 1002 in a Place of Payment for such series for the purpose of exchanges of Securities of such series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto) the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor of authorized denominations; that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and that a definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security only in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 303.
provided, however,
provided, further,
If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for the benefit of Euroclear and Clearstream, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities, in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security, or, if so specified as contemplated by Section 301, a permanent global Security, in either case, executed by the Company. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in bearer form, registered form, permanent global bearer form or permanent global registered form, or any combination thereof, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, and, if any combination thereof is so specified, as requested by the beneficial owner thereof; that, unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, upon such presentation by the Common Depositary, such temporary global Security is accompanied by a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Euroclear as the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged and a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Clearstream, as to the portion of
provided, however,
 
such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged, each in the form designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301; and that definitive Bearer Securities shall be delivered in exchange for a portion of a temporary global Security only in compliance with the requirements of Section 303.
provided, further,
Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, the interest of a beneficial owner of Securities of a series in a temporary global Security shall be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor following the Exchange Date when the account holder instructs Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, to request such exchange on his or her behalf and delivers to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301, dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date, copies of which certificate shall be available from the offices of Euroclear and Clearstream, the Trustee, any Authenticating Agent appointed for such series of Securities and each Paying Agent. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, any such exchange shall be made free of charge to the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security, except that a Person receiving definitive Securities must bear the cost of insurance, postage, transportation and the like in the event that such Person does not take delivery of such definitive Securities in person at the offices of Euroclear or Clearstream. Definitive Securities in bearer form to be delivered in exchange for any portion of a temporary global Security shall be delivered only outside the United States.
Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder, except that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series occurring prior to the applicable Exchange Date shall be payable to Euroclear and Clearstream on such Interest Payment Date upon delivery by Euroclear and Clearstream to the Trustee of a certificate or certificates in the form designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301, for credit without further interest on or after such Interest Payment Date to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security on such Interest Payment Date and who have each delivered to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301. Any interest so received by Euroclear and Clearstream and not paid as herein provided shall be returned to the Trustee immediately prior to the expiration of two years after such Interest Payment Date in order to be repaid to the Company in accordance with Section 1003.
SECTION 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
With respect to the Securities of each series, the Company shall cause to be kept at an office or agency to be maintained by the Company in accordance with Section 1002 a register (the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and the registration of transfers of Registered Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of maintaining the Security Register and registering Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as herein provided.
 
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 1002 for such purpose in a Place of Payment for such series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities may not be issued in exchange for Registered Securities.
At the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured Coupons and all matured Coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured Coupon or Coupons or matured Coupon or Coupons in default, such exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing Coupon or Coupons, or the surrender of such missing Coupon or Coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to any Paying Agent any such missing Coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; that, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, interest represented by Coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those Coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in exchange for a Registered Security of the same series and like tenor after the close of business at such office or agency on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the Coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, and interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such Coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided, however,
Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. No permanent global Registered Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a permanent global Registered Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary for such permanent global Registered Security or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary for such permanent global Registered Security and a successor Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary has not been appointed by the Company within 90 days of receipt by the Company of such notification, (B) at any time the Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act or any other applicable law at a time when the Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary is required to be so registered to act as such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary and no successor Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary shall have been appointed by the Company within 90 days after it became aware of such cessation, or (C) there shall exist such circumstances, if any, in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as have been specified for this purpose as contemplated by Section 301. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may at any time in its sole discretion and subject to the procedures of the Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary determine that Securities issued in the form of a permanent global Registered Security shall no longer be represented in whole or in part by such permanent global Registered Security, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order therefor, shall authenticate and deliver definitive Registered Securities in exchange in whole or in part for such permanent global Registered Security. If the beneficial owners of interests in a permanent global Security are entitled to exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified above or as contemplated by Section 301, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Securities shall be surrendered from time to time by the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be, and in accordance with instructions given to the Trustee and the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be (which instructions shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 or be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel), as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, shall be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge. The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in exchange for each portion of such surrendered permanent global Security, a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which (unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, in which case the definitive Securities exchanged for the permanent global Security shall be issuable only in the form in which the Securities are issuable, as specified as contemplated by Section 301) shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities of that series to be
provided, however,
 
redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date; and that no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a permanent global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States. Promptly following any such exchange in part, such permanent global Security shall be returned by the Trustee to the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be, or such other depositary or Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary referred to above in accordance with the instructions of the Company referred to above. If a Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided, further,
None of the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a global Security or maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 305, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, a permanent global Registered Security representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary or by a nominee of such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary to such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary or another nominee of such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary or by such Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Common Depositary or U.S. Depositary.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee or any transfer agent) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar or any transfer agent duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer.
 
The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities of that series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on (a) if Securities of the series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption and (b) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the day of the first publication of the relevant notice of redemption or, if Securities of the series are also issuable as Registered Securities and there is no publication, the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (iii) to exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of that series and like tenor, provided that such Registered Security shall be simultaneously surrendered for redemption.
SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities and Coupons.
If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated Coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with Coupons corresponding to the Coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or Coupon and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security or Coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains (with all appurtenant Coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with Coupons corresponding to the Coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or Coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security or Coupon; that principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any interest on Bearer Securities shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the Coupons appertaining thereto.
provided, however,
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
Every new Security of any series, with its Coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for a Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its Coupons, if any, or the destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and any such new Security and Coupons, if any, shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and their Coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons.
SECTION 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Registered Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Any interest on any Registered Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Registered Securities of such series at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such
 
Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
SECTION 308. Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Title to any Bearer Security and any Coupons appertaining thereto shall pass by delivery. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any Coupon as the absolute owner of such Security or Coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security or Coupon be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
SECTION 309. Cancellation.
All Securities and Coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities and Coupons so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. All Securities and Coupons held by the Trustee pending such cancellation shall be deemed to be delivered for cancellation for all purposes of this Indenture and the Securities. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated
 
hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities and Coupons held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and the Trustee shall furnish a certificate of such disposition to the Company.
SECTION 310. Computation of Interest.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(1) either
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered and all Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) Coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered for exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in Section 305, (ii) Securities and Coupons which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306, (iii) Coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in Section 1106, and (iv) Securities and Coupons for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B) all such Securities and, in the case of (i) and (ii) below, any Coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity Date within one year, or
 
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities and Coupons not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and any interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Company to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to clause (1)(B) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
SECTION 402. Application of Trust Money.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401, 403 or 1011 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the Coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and any interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
SECTION 403. Satisfaction, Discharge and Defeasance of Securities of any Series.
(a) Upon satisfaction of the following conditions, the Company shall be discharged from all of its obligations under the Securities of any series and under this Indenture with respect to such Securities, except for its obligations under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003, this Section 403 and the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, including those under Section 607 hereof (referred to below as a "Defeasance"):
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee in trust for the Holders of such Securities (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest
 
in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, and with no further reinvestment, will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, lawful money of the United States in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities at or before the Stated Maturity Date thereof (and to redeem any sinking fund Securities required to be redeemed prior to such payment and discharge) in accordance with this Indenture and such Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any redeemable Securities which are to be redeemed prior to their respective Stated Maturity Dates, no deposit under this paragraph shall be deemed sufficient to pay and discharge such Securities as aforesaid until proper notice of such redemption shall have been given in accordance with Article Eleven of this Indenture or irrevocable instructions shall have been given to the Trustee to give such notice.
(2) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit or Defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit or Defeasance had not occurred, which Opinion of Counsel (except in the case of a Covenant Defeasance) shall be based upon (and accompanied by a copy of) a ruling of the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect unless there has been a change in applicable Federal income tax law after the original issue date of such Securities such that a ruling is no longer required or a ruling directed to the Trustee received from the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect as the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel.
(3) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Securities, if then listed on any securities exchange or quoted on an automatic quotation system, will not be delisted or cease to be quoted as a result of such deposit.
(4) No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to such Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as any event described in Section 501(6) or (7), at any time prior to the 91st day after such deposit.
(5) Such deposit or Defeasance shall not result in a violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(6) Such Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 or such trust shall be qualified under such act or exempt from regulation thereunder.
 
(7) Such Defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest under the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any Securities of the Company or any guarantor.
(8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (i) an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to such Defeasance or deposit have been complied with, and (ii) an Opinion of Counsel stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to such Defeasance or deposit have been complied with.
(b) Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to paragraph (a) in respect of one or more series of Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
The Company shall pay (in addition to any U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to paragraph (a)), and indemnify the Trustee against, any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to paragraph (a) or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Securities for which such deposit is made.
Anything in this Section 403 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in paragraph (a) which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Defeasance.
SECTION 404. Reinstatement.
If the Trustee is unable to apply any money or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 401, 403 or 1011 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 401, 403 or 1011 until such time as the Trustee is permitted to apply all such money or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 401, 403 or 1011; that if the Company has made any payment of interest on or principal of any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee.
provided, however,
 
SECTION 501. Events of Default.
"Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series; or
(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) a default in respect of any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any consolidated Subsidiary (including a default with respect to Securities of any series other than that series) or under any Mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any Subsidiary which is consolidated with the Company on the Company's consolidated financial statements (including this Indenture), whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, which default shall have resulted in Indebtedness in an aggregate outstanding principal amount in excess of $50,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, without such acceleration having been rescinded or annulled, or without such Indebtedness having been discharged or waived, in each case, within a period of 10 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default and
 
requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled or cause such Indebtedness to be discharged or waived and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; that, subject to Section 601, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any such default unless either (i) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have actual knowledge of such default, or (ii) written notice of such default shall have been given to the Trustee by the Company, by the trustee then acting under any indenture or other instrument under which such default shall have occurred or by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding; or
provided, however,
(6) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (a) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (b) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(7) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(8) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series specified as contemplated by Section 301.
SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing (other than those of the type described in Section 501(6) or (7) with respect to the Company), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all of the
 
Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(6) or (7) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all of the Securities of that series shall become due and payable immediately without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or the Holders of the Securities of such series.
Upon payment of such due and payable principal amount referred to in the proceeding two paragraphs (or such portion thereof in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities), all obligations of the Company in respect of the payment of principal of the Securities of such series shall terminate.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
(B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if an Event of Default specified in Section 501(1) or 501(2) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal, premium, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate then borne by the Securities; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel. If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may, but is not obligated under this paragraph to, institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid and may, but is not obligated under this paragraph to, prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may, but is not obligated under this paragraph to, enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related Coupons by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(1) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any) and any interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders of Securities and Coupons allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(2) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder of Securities and Coupons to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders of Securities and Coupons, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, it agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder of a Security or Coupon any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or Coupons or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder of a Security or Coupon in any such proceeding.
SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or Coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or Coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities and Coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected.
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities or Coupons, or both, as the case may be, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of the amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on the Securities and Coupons in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and Coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and any interest, respectively; and
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto, as directed by the Company.
 
SECTION 507. Limitations on Suits.
No Holder of any Security of any series or any related Coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security or Coupon shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security or payment of such Coupon on the Stated Maturity Date or Maturities expressed in such Security or Coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
If the Trustee or any Holder of a Security or Coupon has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities and Coupons shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding has been instituted.
 
SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or Coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or Coupons, as the case may be.
SECTION 512. Control by Holders of Securities.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture or expose the Trustee to personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining therein, and
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Securities of such series and any related Coupons waive any past default hereunder with respect to the Securities of such series and its consequences, except a default
(1) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or any interest on any Security of such series, or
 
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 514. Undertaking for Costs.
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security or Coupon by his or her acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder of any Security or Coupon for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or any interest on any Security or the payment of any Coupon on or after the Stated Maturity Date or Maturities expressed in such Security or Coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
SECTION 515. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
SECTION 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,
(1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(b) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and shall use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, that
except
(1) this paragraph (c) shall not be construed to limit the effect of paragraph (a) of this Section;
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
(4) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
SECTION 602. Notice of Defaults.
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 703(c), notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; that, except in the case of a default in the
provided, however,
 
payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series; and that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided, further,
SECTION 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, Coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order or as otherwise expressly provided herein and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, Coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the
 
Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(h) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a default or an Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee (x) has received notice thereof from the Company or any other obligor on the Securities or from the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series with respect to which the default or Event of Default shall have occurred and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture or (y) has actual knowledge thereof;
(i) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
(j) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
(k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
(l) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
SECTION 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities (except the Trustee's certificates of authentication) and in any Coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee
 
makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or Coupons. The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 605. May Hold Securities.
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and Coupons and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
SECTION 606. Money Held in Trust.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.
SECTION 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
(3) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder or the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on particular Securities.
 
SECTION 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest with respect to Securities of any series by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to any particular series of Securities or under the Indenture dated as of September 20, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee or the Indenture dated as of February 20, 2007, between the Company and the Trustee.
SECTION 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Corporation that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, any State or Territory thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial or District of Columbia authority; that if Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission under the Trust Indenture Act at any time permit a Corporation organized and doing business under the laws of any other jurisdiction to serve as trustee of an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, this Section 609 shall be automatically amended to permit a Corporation organized and doing business under the laws of any such other jurisdiction to serve as Trustee hereunder. If such Corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
provided, however,
SECTION 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
 
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose or rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself or herself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders of Securities and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself or herself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
 
SECTION 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its lien, if any, provided for in Section 607.
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees as co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, subject nevertheless to its lien, if any, provided for in Section 607.
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
 
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
SECTION 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any Corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee thereunder, provided such Corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. In case any Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any such successor Trustee may authenticate and deliver such Securities, in either its own name or that of its predecessor Trustee, with the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee.
SECTION 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship listed in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated therein.
SECTION 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue or upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a Corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
 
Any Corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any Corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of such Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such Corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Registered Securities, if any, of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
SECTION 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee with respect to the Securities of each series
(1) semi-annually, not later than May 15 and November 15 in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, containing all the information in the possession or control of the Company, or any of its Paying Agents other than the Trustee, as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of the preceding May 1 or November 1, as the case may be, and
(2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
SECTION 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of Securities of each series (i) contained in the most recent lists furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701, (ii) received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, and (iii) filed with it within the two preceding years pursuant to Section 703(c)(2). The Trustee may (i) destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished, (ii) destroy any information received by it as Paying Agent (if so acting) hereunder upon delivering to itself as Trustee, not earlier than July 1 or January 1, a list containing the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities obtained from such information since the delivery of the next previous list, if any, (iii) destroy any list delivered to itself as Trustee which was compiled from information received by it as Paying Agent (if so acting) hereunder upon the receipt of a new list so delivered, and (iv) destroy not earlier than two years after filing any information filed with it pursuant to Section 703(c)(2).
(b) If three or more Holders of Securities (herein referred to as "applicants") apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five business days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
(1) afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with paragraph (a), or
 
(2) inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with paragraph (a), and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Holders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of Securities whose name and address appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with paragraph (a) a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interest of the Holders of Securities or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holders of Securities with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
(c) Every Holder of Securities or Coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with paragraph (b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under paragraph (b).
SECTION 703. Reports by Trustee.
(a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the year 2013, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to the Holders of Securities, as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section, a brief report dated as of such May 15, in accordance with, and to the extent required under, Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b) A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Commission and each stock exchange and automated quotation system on which the Securities are listed or quoted. The Company shall notify the Trustee when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange or automated quotation system or delisted therefrom.
 
(c) Reports pursuant to this Section shall be transmitted by mail:
(1) to all Holders of Registered Securities, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear in the Security Register;
(2) to such Holders of Bearer Securities as have, within the two years preceding such transmission, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose; and
(3) except in the case of reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, to each Holder of a Security whose name and address is preserved at the time by the Trustee, as provided in Section 702(a).
SECTION 704. Reports by Company.
The Company shall:
(1) (x) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or (y) if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations; , that, in the case of clause (1)(y) of this Section 704, if (I) more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person that is required to file information, documents and reports (including financial statements that are prepared in accordance with financial reporting standards acceptable to the Commission) with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and (II) such Person fully and unconditionally guarantees the covenants, agreements, undertakings and obligations of the Company set forth in this Indenture, the Company shall be permitted to satisfy its obligations under such clause (1)(y) by filing with the Trustee, within 15 days after such Person is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the information, documents and reports which such Person is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; , that if the Company elects to file with the Trustee copies of the information, documents and reports of another Person in accordance with the immediately foregoing proviso and such Person thereafter is no longer required to file such information, documents and reports with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, then the Company shall be permitted to continue to rely on the immediately foregoing proviso to satisfy its obligations under such clause (1)(y) only for so long as such Person files with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports (including
provided, however
provided further, however
 
financial statements that are prepared in accordance with financial reporting standards acceptable to the Commission) that may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed form time to time in such rules and regulations.
(2) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations, including, in the case of annual reports, if required by such rules and regulations, certificates or opinions of independent public accountants, conforming to the requirements of Section 102, as to compliance with conditions or covenants, compliance with which is subject to verification by accountants; , that if (I) more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person that is required to file such additional information, documents and reports and (II) such Person fully and unconditionally guarantees the covenants, agreements, undertakings and obligations of the Company set forth in this Indenture, the Company shall be permitted to satisfy its obligations under this clause (2) by filing with the Trustee and the Commission copies of such additional information, documents and reports required to be filed by such Person; and
provided, however
(3) transmit, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 703(c) with respect to reports pursuant to Section 703(a) such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1) or (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
SECTION 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Company shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Company, unless:
 
(1) in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a Corporation, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing;
(3) if, as a result of any such consolidation or merger or such conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary would become subject to a Mortgage which would not be permitted by Section 1007 without equally and ratably securing the Securities as provided therein, the Company or such successor Corporation or Person, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary effectively to secure the Securities equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness secured thereby pursuant to Section 1007; and
(4) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
SECTION 802. Successor Substituted.
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and Coupons.
SECTION 803. Conveyance or Transfer to a Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 801 and 802, and without any requirement of complying with any of such provisions, the Company may convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to another Corporation organized and existing under the laws
 
of the United States or any State or the District of Columbia which is lawfully entitled to acquire the same; that immediately after giving effect to such conveyance or transfer and to the receipt of the consideration therefor (i) such other Corporation shall be a Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary, and (ii) the Company shall be permitted to become liable for an increased amount of Secured Funded Debt under the provisions of Section 1007, and prior to such conveyance or transfer there shall have been filed with the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the requirements of the preceding clauses (i) and (ii) will be complied with in connection with such conveyance or transfer.
provided, however,
SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
Without the consent of any Holders of Securities or Coupons, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(3) to add any additional Events of Default; or
(4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of or any premium or interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Registered Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Bearer Securities of other authorized denominations or to permit the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form, provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons in any material respect; or
(5) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
(6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1007 or otherwise; or
 
(7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any related Coupons as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
(8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611(b); or
(9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided that any such indenture supplemental hereto shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons in any material respect.
SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such supplemental indenture, acting together as a class, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related Coupons under this Indenture; that no such supplemental indenture shall, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided, however,
(1) change the Stated Maturity Date of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon, or change the method of calculating the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or change the coin or currency in which any Security or any premium or any interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity Date thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of Section 1304 for quorum or voting, or
 
(3) change any obligation of the Company to maintain an office or agency in the places and for the purposes specified in Section 1002, or
(4) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1010, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder of a Security or Coupon with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1010, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611(b) and 901(8).
provided, however,
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders of Securities under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore and thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder and of any Coupons appertaining thereto shall be bound thereby.
SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
 
SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities, any Coupons appertaining thereto and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any interest due on Bearer Securities on or before Maturity shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several Coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature.
SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
If Securities of a series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for such series an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, if Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the Company will maintain (a) in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served and where Bearer Securities of that series and related Coupons may be presented or surrendered for payment in the circumstances described in the following paragraph (and not otherwise), (b) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series which is located outside the United States, an office or agency where Securities of that series and related Coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment; that if the Securities of that series are listed on The International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the Luxembourg Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange located outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent, for the Securities of that series in London, Luxembourg or any other required city located outside the United States, as the case may be, so
provided, however,
 
long as the Securities of that series are listed on such exchange, and (c) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series located outside the United States an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee and the Holders of the location, and any change in the location, of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency in respect of any series of Securities or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations and surrenders of Securities of that series may be made and notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, except that Bearer Securities of that series and the related Coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment at an office maintained by the Trustee in London, and the Company hereby appoints the same as its agent to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, no payment of principal, premium or interest on Bearer Securities shall be made at any office or agency of the Company in the United States or by check mailed to any address in the United States or by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in the United States; that, if the Securities of a series are denominated and payable in Dollars, payment of principal of and any premium and interest on any Bearer Security shall be made at the office of the Company's Paying Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, if (but only if) payment in Dollars of the full amount of such principal, premium or interest, as the case may be, at all offices or agencies outside the United States maintained for the purpose by the Company in accordance with this Indenture is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
provided, however,
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee and the Holders of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided, however,
SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of and any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of and any premium or interest on any
 
Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of and any premium or interest on Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series; and
(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of and any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and any premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security or any Coupon appertaining thereto shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be transmitted in the manner and to the extent provided by Section 106, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided, however,
 
SECTION 1004. Corporate Existence.
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided, however,
SECTION 1005. Maintenance of Properties.
The Company will cause all manufacturing plants and warehouses, together with the land on which they are erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, used in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted; that nothing in this Section shall prevent or restrict the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary or is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided, however,
SECTION 1006. Payment of Taxes.
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary; that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment or charge whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or if failure to so pay, discharge, or cause to be paid or discharged will not be disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided, however,
SECTION 1007. Restrictions on Secured Funded Debt.
(a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee, incur or create any Secured Funded Debt unless immediately thereafter the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Secured Funded Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (exclusive of any Secured Funded Debt permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section) plus (ii) the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of sale and leaseback transactions (as defined in Section 1008) does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
(b) Compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) shall be determined without regard to (i) Secured Funded Debt of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to the Company or a Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary, (ii) Secured Funded Debt resulting from the Mortgage of property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States, or any State
 
thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States or any State thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to the provisions of any contract or statute, (iii) Secured Funded Debt secured by Mortgages on property of, or on any shares of stock or Indebtedness of, any Corporation existing at the time such Corporation becomes a Subsidiary, (iv) subject to Section 801, Secured Funded Debt resulting from Mortgages on property, shares of stock or Indebtedness existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) or to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof or to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 120 days after, the acquisition of such property or shares or Indebtedness or the completion of any such construction for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof, (v) Secured Funded Debt resulting from Mortgages incurred or assumed in connection with an issuance of revenue bonds the interest on which is exempt from Federal income tax pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any predecessor or successor provision thereof), or (vi) any extension, renewal or refunding (or successive extensions, renewals or refundings), in whole or in part (but without increase in amount), of any Secured Funded Debt (and of any Mortgage securing the same) permitted by the provisions of paragraph (a) or of any Secured Funded Debt (and of any Mortgage securing the same) outstanding as of the date of this Indenture, that the Mortgage securing such extended, renewed or refunded Secured Funded Debt is limited to the same property (plus improvements thereon) that secured the Secured Funded Debt so extended, renewed or refunded immediately prior thereto.
provided
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs of this Section, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may issue, assume, guarantee, incur or create Secured Funded Debt not permitted by such paragraphs if the Company shall first make effective provision whereby the Securities (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other Indebtedness or any obligations of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Securities, including guarantees of Indebtedness or obligations of others) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Funded Debt, so long as such Secured Funded Debt shall be so secured. If the Company shall hereafter make provision to secure the Securities equally and ratably with (or prior to) any other Indebtedness or obligations pursuant to this paragraph (c), then (i) the Company will promptly deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that this paragraph (c) has been complied with and that any instruments executed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in the performance of this paragraph (c) comply with the requirements hereof, and (ii) the Trustee is hereby authorized to enter into an indenture or agreement supplemental hereto and to take such action, if any, to enable it to enforce the rights of the Holders of the Securities as so secured.
SECTION 1008. Restrictions on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
(a) Except to the extent permitted under paragraph (c) of this Section, and except for any transaction involving a lease for a temporary period, not to exceed three years, by the end of which it is intended that the use of the leased property by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary will be discontinued and except for any transaction with a state or local authority that is required in connection with any program, law, statute or regulation that provides financial or tax benefits not available without such transaction, the Company shall not sell any Principal
 
Domestic Manufacturing Property as an entirety, or any substantial portion thereof, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property and the Company will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to sell to anyone other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary any Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property as an entirety, or any substantial portion thereof, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property unless:
(1) the net proceeds of such sale (including any purchase money mortgages received in connection with such sale) are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined by an officer of the Company) of such property; and
(2) subject to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Company shall, within 120 days after the transfer of title to such property (or, if the Company holds the net proceeds described below in cash or cash equivalents, within two years):
(A) purchase, and surrender to the Trustee for retirement as provided in this Section, a principal amount of Securities equal to the net proceeds derived from such sale (including the amount of any such purchase money mortgages), or
(B) repay other Funded Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in an amount equal to such net proceeds, or
(C) expend an amount equal to such net proceeds for the expansion, construction or acquisition of a Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property, or
(D) effect a combination of such purchases, repayments and plant expenditures in an amount equal to such net proceeds.
(b) At or prior to the date 120 days after a transfer of title to a Principal Domestic Manufacturing Property which shall be subject to the requirements of this Section, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
(1) an Officers' Certificate stating that the covenant of the Company in paragraph (a) has been complied with and that such action is otherwise authorized or permitted by this Indenture, and setting forth in detail the manner of such compliance, which certificate shall contain information as to:
(A) the amount of Securities theretofore redeemed and the amount of Securities theretofore purchased by the Company and cancelled by the Trustee and the amount of Securities purchased by the Company and then being surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation,
(B) the amount thereof previously credited under paragraph (d),
(C) the amount thereof which it then elects to have credited on its obligation under paragraph (d), and
 
(D) any amount of other indebtedness which the Company has repaid or will repay and of the expenditures which the Company has made or will make in compliance with its obligation under paragraph (a),
(2) a deposit with the Trustee for cancellation of the Securities then being surrendered as set forth in such certificate; and
(3) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such covenant has been complied with.
(c) Notwithstanding the restriction of paragraph (a), the Company and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may transfer property in sale-leaseback transactions which would otherwise be subject to such restriction if the sum of (i) the aggregate fair market value of the property so transferred and not reacquired at such time plus (ii) the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Secured Funded Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (exclusive of any Secured Funded Debt permitted by paragraph (b) of Section 1007) does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
(d) The Company, at its option, shall be entitled to a credit, in respect of its obligation to purchase and retire Securities under this Section, for the principal amount of any Securities deposited with the Trustee for the purpose and also for the principal amount of (i) any Securities theretofore redeemed at the option of the Company and (ii) any Securities previously purchased by the Company and cancelled by the Trustee, and in each case not theretofore applied as a credit under this paragraph (d) or Section 1202.
(e) For purposes of this Section, the amount or the principal amount of Securities which are Original Issue Discount Securities shall be the principal amount of said Original Issue Discount Securities that on the date of the purchase or redemption of such Securities referred to in this Section could be declared to be due and payable pursuant to Section 502.
SECTION 1009. Statement by Officers as to Default.
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not to the best of the signers' knowledge the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions in this Indenture and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. One of the officers signing such Officers' Certificate must be either the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company.
SECTION 1010. Waiver of Certain Covenants.
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 1004 to 1008, inclusive, with respect to the Securities of any series or any other term, provision or condition applicable to the Securities of any series pursuant to Section 301 (unless such covenant or condition is determined pursuant to Section 301 to not be subject to this provision) if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series to which such term, provision or
 
condition applies shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 1011. Defeasance of Certain Obligations.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in Section 403(a) (except for any condition which under Section 403(a) is expressly not applicable to a Covenant Defeasance), the Company shall be released from its obligations under Section 801(3) and Sections 1004 through 1008, inclusive, with respect to the Securities of a series and any other covenant determined pursuant to Section 301 to be subject to this Section with respect to the Securities of such series, and the occurrence of an event specified in Section 501(4) (with respect to Section 801(3) or any of said Sections 1004 through 1008, inclusive, or any such other covenant) shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series (referred to below as a "Covenant Defeasance"). Such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any such covenant or any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section, whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference in this Indenture or in any other document to any such covenant or Section, and that the Securities of such series shall thereafter be deemed not to be Outstanding for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with any such covenant or the provisions of Section 801(3) and Sections 1004 through 1008, inclusive, but shall continue to be deemed Outstanding for all other purposes hereunder.
SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity Date shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In the case of any redemption at the election of the Company of all or a portion of the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (i) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (ii) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
 
SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Registered Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 106 to the Holders of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price, or if not then ascertainable, the manner of calculation thereof,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(5) the place or places where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all Coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
 
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and
(7) the CUSIP number, if any.
A notice of redemption published as contemplated by Section 106 need not identify particular Registered Securities to be redeemed. Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company; , that the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date (or such shorter period as may be acceptable to the Trustee), an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
provided, however
SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.
Prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date, unless the Securities being redeemed provide that interest due on an Interest Payment Date that falls on a Redemption Date is payable to the Person to whom principal is payable) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and the Coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; that installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity Date is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of Coupons for such interest, and that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity Date is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Sections 305 and 307.
provided, however,
provided, further,
If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant Coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing
 
Coupons, or the surrender of such missing Coupon or Coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing Coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; that interest represented by Coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those Coupons.
provided, however,
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.
Any Registered Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Registered Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. If a Security in permanent global form is so surrendered, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the U.S. Depositary or Common Depositary for such Security in permanent global form, without service charge, a new Security in permanent global form in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security in permanent global form so surrendered.
SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article.
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
 
SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption), together in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series with all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto, and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
provided
SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
SECTION 1301. Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called.
If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
SECTION 1302. Call, Notice and Place of Meetings.
(a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1301, to be held at such time and at such place in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, or in London as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in Section 106, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
 
(b) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1301, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, or in London for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a).
SECTION 1303. Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
SECTION 1304. Quorum; Action.
The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1302(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; that, except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
provided, however,
 
waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series and the related Coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
SECTION 1305. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 or by having the signature of the person executing the proxy witnessed or guaranteed by any trust company, bank or banker authorized by Section 104 to certify to the holding of Bearer Securities. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 104 or other proof.
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1302(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
(c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by him or her; that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy.
provided, however,
(d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1302 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
 
SECTION 1306. Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings.
The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1302 and, if applicable, Section 1304. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), IS NOT ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY OR ANY WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) IN THE UNITED STATES, SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY REMAINS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHO IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ONE OR MORE OTHER QIBS IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT SUCH RESALE, PLEDGE OR TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
No. RA-
$[            ]
CUSIP NO. 039483 BG6
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum set forth on
the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in Global Security attached hereto on April 16, 2043, and to pay interest thereon from October 16, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually in arrears on April 16 and October 16 in each year commencing April 16, 2013, at the rate of 4.016% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 2 and October 2 (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date; , , that interest payable at Maturity will be payable to the Person to whom principal shall be payable. Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the pages following the certificate of authentication hereon, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to below, directly or through an Authenticating Agent, by manual signature of an authorized signatory, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 16, 2012 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the Securities of the series designated herein, limited in aggregate principal amount in accordance with the terms of the exchange offers described in the Confidential Offering Memorandum of the Company dated as of September 14, 2012; provided, however, that the Company, without notice to or the consent of the Holders, may issue additional Securities of this series and thereby increase such principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions (except for issue date, public offering price and, if applicable, the date from which interest accrues and the first Interest Payment Date) and with the same CUSIP number as the Securities of this series.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 16, 2012, by and among the Company and the Dealer Managers, as defined therein (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Registration Rights Agreement"). In the event of a Registration Default (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement), additional interest shall accrue on the Securities of this series over and above the interest set forth in the title of the Securities of this series from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all filings, declarations of effectiveness and consummations, as the case may be, have been achieved which, if achieved on a timely basis, would have prevented the occurrence of all of the then existing Registration Defaults, at a rate of 0.25% per annum during the 90-day period immediately following the first occurrence of a Registration Default, which shall increase by 0.25% per annum at the end of each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum of 0.50% per annum with respect to all Registration Defaults. Any such additional interest shall be paid to the same Persons, at the same times and in the same manner as ordinary interest on the Securities of this series. Any Exchange Debenture (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) issued in exchange for this Security shall evidence the same continuing indebtedness as this Security. Under no circumstances shall the surrender of this Security and the issue of an Exchange Debenture in exchange therefor constitute new indebtedness or obligate the Company to repay the principal amount of this Security in connection with the exchange.
The Securities of this series are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, in whole or in part, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments.
In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments will be discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points. A partial redemption of the Securities of this series may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for the Securities of this series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for the Securities of this series.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Securities of this series to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or portions thereof called for redemption.
"Treasury Rate," with respect to any Redemption Date, means the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue. In determining this rate, it is assumed that a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) is equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the Redemption Date) of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) if the Quotation Agent obtains five or more Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of such quotations, after excluding the highest and lowest of such quotations, or (b) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (c) if only one reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Quotation Agent" means any Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors and (2) one Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc. or its successor after consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing specified in (1) or (2) shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (3) any other Primary Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealers Quotations" mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to any Security of this series, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Security, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced (solely for purposes of this definition) by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
provided, however
The Company shall give the Trustee notice of the Redemption Price promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall not be responsible for such calculation.
This Security shall not be subject to any sinking fund.
If a change of control triggering event occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "change of control offer") to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of the Securities of this series held by such Holder on the terms set forth in this Security. In the change of control offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to the date of repurchase (the "change of control payment"). Within 30 days following any change of control triggering event or, at the Company's option, prior to any change of control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the change of control, a notice will be mailed to the Holders of the Securities of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the change of control triggering event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "change of control payment date"). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the change of control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the change of control triggering event occurring on or prior to the change of control payment date.
On the change of control payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Company will not be required to make a change of control offer upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the change of control payment date an Event of Default, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a change of control triggering event.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a change of control triggering event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
For purposes of the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the following terms will be applicable:
"Change of control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a change of control if (1) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2) either (A) the direct or indirect holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of such holding company.
"Change of control triggering event" means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event.
"Continuing directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the date the Securities of this series were originally issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the continuing directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
"Investment grade rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
"Rating agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Rating event" means the rating on the Securities of this series is lowered by each of the rating agencies and such Securities are rated below an investment grade rating by each of the rating agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the such Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the rating agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a change of control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a change of control or the Company's intention to effect a change of control; provided, however, that a rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular change of control (and thus will not be deemed a rating event for purposes of the definition of "change of control triggering event") if the rating agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable change of control (whether or not the applicable change of control has occurred at the time of the rating event). If any rating agency is not providing a rating of the Securities of this series on any day during the relevant period for any reason and the Company has not selected a replacement rating agency pursuant to the terms of the Securities of this series, the rating of such rating agency shall be deemed to be below an investment grade rating on such day and such rating agency will be deemed to have lowered its rating of the Securities of this series during the relevant period.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
"Voting stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
As provided in the Indenture, defeasance may occur at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each or all series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed or provided for herein.
provided
however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Security at the times, places, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in global or definitive registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000 above that amount. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Securities of this series are exchangeable at said office or agency of the Company for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
This Security, if in global form, is exchangeable for Securities of this series in definitive registered form only if (x) The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository") notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this global Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and the Company has not appointed a successor Depository within 90 days of that notice or of its becoming aware of such cessation, (y) the Company in its sole discretion and subject to the procedures of the Depository determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would become an Event of Default, with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing, provided that the definitive Securities so issued in exchange for this permanent global Security shall be in denominations of $1,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000 above that amount and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this permanent global Security to be exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this permanent global Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
Any Security in global form that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be exchangeable for Securities of this series in definitive registered form registered in such names as the Depository shall direct.
Neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes (subject to the provisions of the Indenture), whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COMas tenants in common
TEN ENTas tenants by the entireties
UNIF GIFT MIN ACT____________Custodian ______________
 
 
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.
In connection with any transfer or exchange of the within Security occurring prior to the termination of the Resale Restriction Period, the undersigned confirms that such Security is being (CHECK ONE BOX BELOW):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Securities evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; provided, however, that if box (6) is checked, the Company may require, prior to the registration of any such transfer of such Securities, in its sole discretion, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Company may reasonably request to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as Rule 144 under such Act.
 
In the presence of:
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Security in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his or her authority to act must accompany the Security. The signature must be guaranteed by an institution that is a member of one of the following recognized signature guarantee programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP); (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) in such other guarantee program acceptable to the Trustee.
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (3) ABOVE IS CHECKED.
The Undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Security for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
The initial outstanding principal amount of this Global Security is $[            ]. The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Certificated Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.3
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), IS NOT ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY OR ANY WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) IN THE UNITED STATES, SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY REMAINS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHO IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ONE OR MORE OTHER QIBS IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT SUCH RESALE, PLEDGE OR TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
No. RS-
$[            ]
CUSIP NO. U03948 AD5
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum set forth on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in Global Security attached hereto on April 16, 2043, and to pay interest thereon
from October 16, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually in arrears on April 16 and October 16 in each year commencing April 16, 2013, at the rate of 4.016% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 2 and October 2 (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date; , , that interest payable at Maturity will be payable to the Person to whom principal shall be payable. Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the pages following the certificate of authentication hereon, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to below, directly or through an Authenticating Agent, by manual signature of an authorized signatory, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 16, 2012 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the Securities of the series designated herein, limited in aggregate principal amount in accordance with the terms of the exchange offers described in the Confidential Offering Memorandum of the Company dated as of September 14, 2012; provided, however, that the Company, without notice to or the consent of the Holders, may issue additional Securities of this series and thereby increase such principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions (except for issue date, public offering price and, if applicable, the date from which interest accrues and the first Interest Payment Date) and with the same CUSIP number as the Securities of this series.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 16, 2012, by and among the Company and the Dealer Managers, as defined therein (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Registration Rights Agreement"). In the event of a Registration Default (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement), additional interest shall accrue on the Securities of this series over and above the interest set forth in the title of the Securities of this series from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all filings, declarations of effectiveness and consummations, as the case may be, have been achieved which, if achieved on a timely basis, would have prevented the occurrence of all of the then existing Registration Defaults, at a rate of 0.25% per annum during the 90-day period immediately following the first occurrence of a Registration Default, which shall increase by 0.25% per annum at the end of each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum of 0.50% per annum with respect to all Registration Defaults. Any such additional interest shall be paid to the same Persons, at the same times and in the same manner as ordinary interest on the Securities of this series. Any Exchange Debenture (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) issued in exchange for this Security shall evidence the same continuing indebtedness as this Security. Under no circumstances shall the surrender of this Security and the issue of an Exchange Debenture in exchange therefor constitute new indebtedness or obligate the Company to repay the principal amount of this Security in connection with the exchange.
The Securities of this series are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, in whole or in part, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments.
In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments will be discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points. A partial redemption of the Securities of this series may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for the Securities of this series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for the Securities of this series.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Securities of this series to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or portions thereof called for redemption.
"Treasury Rate," with respect to any Redemption Date, means the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue. In determining this rate, it is assumed that a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) is equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the Redemption Date) of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) if the Quotation Agent obtains five or more Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of such quotations, after excluding the highest and lowest of such quotations, or (b) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (c) if only one reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Quotation Agent" means any Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors and (2) one Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc. or its successor after consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing specified in (1) or (2) shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (3) any other Primary Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealers Quotations" mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to any Security of this series, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Security, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced (solely for purposes of this definition) by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
provided, however
The Company shall give the Trustee notice of the Redemption Price promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall not be responsible for such calculation.
This Security shall not be subject to any sinking fund.
If a change of control triggering event occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "change of control offer") to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of the Securities of this series held by such Holder on the terms set forth in this Security. In the change of control offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to the date of repurchase (the "change of control payment"). Within 30 days following any change of control triggering event or, at the Company's option, prior to any change of control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the change of control, a notice will be mailed to the Holders of the Securities of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the change of control triggering event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "change of control payment date"). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the change of control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the change of control triggering event occurring on or prior to the change of control payment date.
On the change of control payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Company will not be required to make a change of control offer upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the change of control payment date an Event of Default, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a change of control triggering event.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a change of control triggering event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
For purposes of the change of control offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the following terms will be applicable:
"Change of control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a change of control if (1) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2) either (A) the direct or indirect holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of such holding company.
"Change of control triggering event" means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event.
"Continuing directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the date the Securities of this series were originally issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the continuing directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
"Investment grade rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
"Rating agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Rating event" means the rating on the Securities of this series is lowered by each of the rating agencies and such Securities are rated below an investment grade rating by each of the rating agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the such Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the rating agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a change of control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a change of control or the Company's intention to effect a change of control; provided, however, that a rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular change of control (and thus will not be deemed a rating event for purposes of the definition of "change of control triggering event") if the rating agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable change of control (whether or not the applicable change of control has occurred at the time of the rating event). If any rating agency is not providing a rating of the Securities of this series on any day during the relevant period for any reason and the Company has not selected a replacement rating agency pursuant to the terms of the Securities of this series, the rating of such rating agency shall be deemed to be below an investment grade rating on such day and such rating agency will be deemed to have lowered its rating of the Securities of this series during the relevant period.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
"Voting stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
As provided in the Indenture, defeasance may occur at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each or all series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed or provided for herein.
provided
however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Security at the times, places, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in global or definitive registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000 above that amount. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Securities of this series are exchangeable at said office or agency of the Company for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
This Security, if in global form, is exchangeable for Securities of this series in definitive registered form only if (x) The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository") notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this global Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and the Company has not appointed a successor Depository within 90 days of that notice or of its becoming aware of such cessation, (y) the Company in its sole discretion and subject to the procedures of the Depository determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would become an Event of Default, with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing, provided that the definitive Securities so issued in exchange for this permanent global Security shall be in denominations of $1,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000 above that amount and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this permanent global Security to be exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this permanent global Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
Any Security in global form that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be exchangeable for Securities of this series in definitive registered form registered in such names as the Depository shall direct.
Neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes (subject to the provisions of the Indenture), whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COMas tenants in common
TEN ENTas tenants by the entireties
UNIF GIFT MIN ACT____________Custodian ______________
 
 
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.
In connection with any transfer or exchange of the within Security occurring prior to the termination of the Resale Restriction Period, the undersigned confirms that such Security is being (CHECK ONE BOX BELOW):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Securities evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; provided, however, that if box (6) is checked, the Company may require, prior to the registration of any such transfer of such Securities, in its sole discretion, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Company may reasonably request to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as Rule 144 under such Act.
 
In the presence of:
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Security in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his or her authority to act must accompany the Security. The signature must be guaranteed by an institution that is a member of one of the following recognized signature guarantee programs: (i) the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP); (ii) the New York Stock Exchange Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP); (iii) the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP); or (iv) in such other guarantee program acceptable to the Trustee.
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (3) ABOVE IS CHECKED.
The Undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Security for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
The initial outstanding principal amount of this Global Security is $[            ]. The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Certificated Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.4
Execution Version
October 16, 2012
Barclays Capital Inc.
BNP Paribas Securities Corp.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc.
as Dealer Managers
 
Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue its 4.016% Debentures due 2043 (the "") as part of an exchange offer (the "") for its outstanding $140,735,000 6.750% Debentures due 2027, $221,791,000 7.500% Debentures due 2027, $197,104,000 6.625% Debentures due 2029, $500,000,000 5.935% Debentures due 2032, $193,654,000 7.000% Debentures due 2031, $157,827,000 6.450% Debentures due 2038, $1,000,000,000 5.765% Debentures due 2041 and $175,603,000 6.950% Debentures due 2097 (collectively, the ""), upon the terms set forth in a Dealer Manager Agreement (the "") dated as of September 14, 2012, between the Company and you as the dealer managers (the ""), relating to the Initial Exchange Offer. The New Debentures are to be issued under an indenture dated as of October 16, 2012 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the ""). To induce the Dealer Managers to enter into the Dealer Manager Agreement and to satisfy a condition to your obligations thereunder, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders (each a "" and, together, the "") from time to time of the New Debentures or the Exchange Debentures (as hereinafter defined), as follows:
Company
New Debentures
Initial Exchange Offer
Old Debentures
Dealer Manager Agreement
Dealer Managers
Indenture
Trustee
Holder
Holders
Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
1.
Definitions.
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
Additional Interest
Section 5
"" of any specified person shall mean any other person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified person. For purposes of this definition, control of a person shall mean the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
"" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City, New York.
Business Day
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Company
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
Company Indemnitee
Section 7(b)
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
Conduct Rules
Section 4(u)
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Dealer Manager Agreement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Dealer Managers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
DTC
Section 4(l)(i)
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the New Debentures (except that the additional interest provision and the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) and to be issued under the Indenture.
Exchange Debentures
"" shall mean the 180-day period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
Exchange Offer Registration Period
 
"" shall mean a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" shall mean any Holder (which may include any Dealer Manager) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for Exchange Debentures any New Debentures that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company).
Exchanging Dealer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
Expiration Date
Section 2(c)(ii)
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement.
Fee
"" and "" shall have the meanings set forth in the preamble hereto.
Holder
Holders
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Losses
Section 7(d)
"" shall mean, on any date, the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the New Debentures registered or to be registered under a Registration Statement.
Majority Holders
"" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that shall administer an underwritten offering, if any, under a Registration Statement.
Managing Underwriters
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
New Debentures
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Old Debentures
"" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the New Debentures or the Exchange Debentures covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the New Debentures that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the New Debentures, a like aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Debentures.
Registered Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in hereto.
Registration Default
Section 5
 
"" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the New Debentures or the Exchange Debentures pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the date on which the Initial Exchange Offer has been consummated.
Settlement Date
"" shall mean a registration under the Act effected pursuant to hereof.
Shelf Registration
Section 3
"" has the meaning set forth in hereof.
Shelf Registration Period
Section 3(b)(ii)
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of hereof which covers some or all of the New Debentures, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments and the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
Section 3
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Trustee
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Trust Indenture Act
"" shall mean any underwriter of New Debentures in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
Underwriter
2. Registered Exchange Offer.
(a) The Company shall prepare and, not later than 90 days following the Settlement Date (or if such 90th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), shall file with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act within 180 days of the Settlement Date (or if such 180th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) and (ii) consummate the Registered Exchange Offer within 210 days of the Settlement Date (or if such 210th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day).
(b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange New Debentures for Exchange Debentures (provided that such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company, acquires the Exchange Debentures in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate
 
in the distribution of the Exchange Debentures and is not prohibited by any law, rule or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such Exchange Debentures from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States.
(c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
 
 
(e) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the Exchange Debentures (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. (pub. avail. June 5, 1991), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993 and similar no-action letters, and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction, and any secondary resale transactions by such Holder must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder and plan of distribution information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act if the resales are of Exchange Debentures obtained by such Holder in exchange for New Debentures acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to provide a written representation to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
 
 
 
 
3. Shelf Registration.
(a) If (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines upon advice of its outside counsel that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by hereof; (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 210 days of the Settlement Date; or (iii) any Holder notifies the Company that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer and the Company receives notice of such ineligibility from such Holder within 45 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below.
Section 2
(b) (i) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 45 days after so required or requested pursuant to this ), file with the Commission and thereafter shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective under the Act within 120 days after so required or requested pursuant to this a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the New Debentures by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; provided, however, that no Holder shall be entitled to have the New Debentures held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and provided further that with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement required pursuant to clause (ii) of , the consummation of a Registered Exchange Offer shall relieve the Company of its obligations under this but only in respect of its obligations under such clause (ii) of .
Section 3
Section 3
Section 3(a)
Section 3(b)
Section 3(a)
(ii) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the Settlement Date or such shorter period that will terminate when all the New Debentures covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (A) have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or (B) are freely tradable pursuant to Rule 144 (and applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff) (in any such case, such period being called the ""). The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the requisite period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of New Debentures covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such New Debentures during that period, unless (A) such action is required by applicable law or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, so long as the Company promptly thereafter complies with the requirements of hereof, if applicable.
Shelf Registration Period
Section 4(k)
 
(iii) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (A) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission; and (B) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of a Prospectus contained therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply.
4.
Additional Registration Procedures.
(a) The Company shall:
 
 
 
(b) The Company shall ensure that:
 
 
(c) The Company shall advise you or the Holders of New Debentures covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by you or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) below shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
 
 
 
 
 
Upon receiving notice of the occurrence of any of the events listed in subsections (ii) through (v) of this , each Holder and any Exchanging Dealer will, upon request by the Company in writing, immediately discontinue disposition of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's or Exchanging Dealer's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by or until it is advised in writing by the Company
Section 4(c)
Section 4(k)
 
that use of the applicable Prospectus may resume, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder or Exchanging Dealer will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in such Holder's or Exchanging Dealer's possession, other than permanent file copies, of the Prospectus covering such New Debentures or Exchange Debentures that was current at the time of receipt of such notice.
(d) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance and, if issued, to obtain the withdrawal at the earliest practicable time of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction.
(e) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of New Debentures covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, and, if the Holder so requests in writing, all material incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto.
(f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, promptly deliver to you and to each Holder of New Debentures covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, and any sales or placement agents or underwriters acting on behalf of such Holder, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the foregoing in connection with the offering and sale of the New Debentures covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with applicable law and the terms hereof.
(g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer that so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, and, if the Exchanging Dealer so requests in writing, all material incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto.
(h) The Company shall promptly deliver to you, each Exchanging Dealer and each other person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by you, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the Exchange Debentures covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with applicable law and the terms hereof.
(i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the New
 
Debentures or the Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and will use its reasonable best efforts to maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to (i) qualify to do business or as a broker or dealer of securities in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, (ii) take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction if it is not already so subject.
(j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing New Debentures or Exchange Debentures to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request.
(k) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (ii) through (v) of hereof, the Company shall promptly prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the securities covered thereby, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that, during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, the Company shall not be required to amend or supplement a Registration Statement or Prospectus, in the event that, and for a period not to exceed 60 days in any consecutive 12-month period, the Company determines in good faith that the disclosure of any such event would be materially adverse to the Company or otherwise relates to a pending business transaction that has not yet been publicly disclosed. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in and the Shelf Registration Statement provided for in shall each be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to hereof to and including the date the Holders of New Debentures and Exchanging Dealers shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section.
Section 4(c)
Section 2
Section 3(b)
Section 4(c)
(l) (i) Not later than the effective date of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the Exchange Debentures registered under the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Not later than the date of the closing of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Exchange Debentures, free of any restrictive legends, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company ("").
DTC
 
 
In the event the Company is unable to cause DTC to take the actions described in this , the Company shall take such actions as the Majority Holders may reasonably request to provide, as soon as practicable, a CUSIP number, if necessary, for the New Debentures registered under the Shelf Registration Statement and to cause the CUSIP number to be assigned to the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be (or to the maximum aggregate principal amount of the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, to which such number may be assigned).
Section 4(l)
(m) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act.
(n) The Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner.
(o) The Company may require each Holder of New Debentures to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such New Debentures as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Shelf Registration Statement, and each such Holder shall promptly furnish to the Company any additional information required in order to make the information previously disclosed to the Company under this subsection (o) not misleading. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the New Debentures of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
(p) The Company shall, if requested, use its reasonable best efforts to incorporate promptly in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement such information as a Holder of New Debentures to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement may reasonably provide from time to time to the Company in writing for inclusion in a Prospectus or any Shelf Registration Statement concerning such Holder and the distribution of such Holder's New Debentures and shall make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of notification of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to make such updates more than once per month.
 
(q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into such agreements and take all other appropriate actions (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form and otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the Company) in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the New Debentures, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures reasonably comparable to those set forth in (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to the Company, the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to ).
Section 7
Section 7
(r) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The actions set forth in the foregoing subclauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) shall be performed at (A) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto; and (B) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
(s) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the New Debentures by Holders to the Company (or to such other person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the Exchange Debentures, the Company shall mark, or cause to be marked, on the New Debentures so exchanged that such New Debentures are being cancelled in exchange for the Exchange Debentures. In no event shall the New Debentures be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
 
(t) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the securities covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with at least one nationally recognized statistical rating agency, if so requested by the Majority Holders or by any Managing Underwriters unless such securities are already so rated.
(u) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, if any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any New Debentures or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Conduct Rules (the "") of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) thereof, whether as a Holder of such New Debentures or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the requirements of such Conduct Rules, including, without limitation, by:
Conduct Rules
 
 
 
 
5. Additional Interest.
(a) The parties hereto acknowledge that the Holders of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, will suffer damages if the Company fails to perform its obligations under or hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages. Accordingly, in the event that:
Section 2
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
(each such event referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (vi), a ""), then additional interest ("") will accrue on the principal amount of the New Debentures or the Exchange Debentures affected thereby (in addition to the stated interest on the New Debentures and the Exchange Debentures), from and including the date on which any Registration Default first occurs and while any such Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, to but excluding the date on which all filings, declarations of effectiveness and consummations, as the case may be, have been achieved which, if achieved on a timely basis, would have prevented the occurrence of all of the then existing Registration Defaults. Additional Interest will accrue at a rate of 0.25% per annum during the 90-day period immediately following such first occurrence of a Registration Default and while any such Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, and shall increase by 0.25% per annum at the end of each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum of 0.50% per annum with respect to all Registration Defaults, until the date on which all of the filings, declarations of effectiveness and consummations referred to in the preceding sentence have been achieved, on which date the interest rate on the applicable New Debentures and Exchange Debentures will revert to the interest rate originally borne by such debentures.
Registration Default
Additional Interest
(b) The Company shall notify the Trustee immediately upon its knowledge of the happening of each and every Registration Default. The Company shall pay the Additional Interest due on the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, by depositing with the Trustee (which shall not be the Company for these purposes), in trust, for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto, prior to 11:00 a.m. on the next interest payment date specified in the Indenture, sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date specified by the Indenture to the record holders entitled to receive the interest payment to be made on such date.
 
(c) The parties hereto agree that the Additional Interest provided for in this constitutes a reasonable estimate of the damages that will be suffered by Holders of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures by reason of the happening of any Registration Default.
Section 5
(d) All of the Company's obligations set forth in this shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Section 5
(e) Any Additional Interest under this will constitute liquidated damages and will be the exclusive remedy, monetary or otherwise, available to any holder of New Debentures with respect to any Registration Default.
Section 5
The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under , , and hereof and, in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, shall reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel designated by the Majority Holders to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith, and, in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, will reimburse the Dealer Managers for the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel acting in connection therewith; provided, however, that such reimbursement to the Dealer Managers shall not exceed an aggregate amount of $10,000. Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not have any obligation whatsoever in respect of any underwriters' discounts or commissions, brokerage commissions, dealers' selling concessions, transfer taxes or, except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, any other selling expenses incurred in connection with the underwriting, offering or sale of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures by or on behalf of any person.
6.
Registration Expenses.
Sections 2
3
4
7. Indemnification and Contribution.
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement (including each Dealer Manager and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in hereof, each Exchanging Dealer), the directors, officers, employees and agents of each such Holder and each person who controls any such Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which any of the foregoing may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the
Section 4(h)
 
Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any such Holder specifically for inclusion therein and provided, further, that with respect to any untrue statement or omission of a material fact made in any preliminary Prospectus, the indemnity agreement contained in this shall not inure to the benefit of any indemnified party under this indemnity agreement from whom the person asserting any such loss, claim, damage or liability purchased the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures concerned to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability of such party occurs under the circumstance where (i) the Company had previously furnished copies of the Prospectus to such indemnified party in accordance with the terms hereof and prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as applicable, to such person, (ii) to the extent required by applicable law, a copy of the final Prospectus was not sent or given to such person at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as applicable, to such person and (iii) the untrue statement in or omission from the preliminary Prospectus was corrected in the final Prospectus. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
Section 7(a)
The Company also agrees to indemnify as provided in this or contribute as provided in hereof to Losses of each underwriter of New Debentures, registered under a Shelf Registration Statement, their directors, officers, employees or agents and each person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the selling Holders provided in this and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement, as provided in hereof.
Section 7(a)
Section 7(d)
Section 7(a)
Section 4(q)
(b) Each Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Dealer Manager and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in hereof, each Exchanging Dealer), severally and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, and each of its directors, officers, employees and agents and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act (each, a ""), to the same extent as the indemnity in from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity, and further agrees to reimburse each Company Indemnitee for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Company Indemnitee in connection with investigating or defending or preparing to defend against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, judgment or action as such expenses are incurred. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which any such Holder may otherwise have.
Section 4(h)
Company Indemnitee
Section 7(a)
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this or notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section, notify the
Section 7
 
indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party shall not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties (not to be unreasonably withheld), settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. An indemnifying party shall not be liable under this to any indemnified party regarding any settlement or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent is consented to by such indemnifying party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 7
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have an obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is
Section 7
Losses
 
appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Exchange Offer and the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; provided, however, that in no case shall any Dealer Manager who is a Holder of any New Debenture or Exchange Debenture be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the Fee applicable to such New Debenture, or in the case of an Exchange Debenture, applicable to the New Debenture that was exchangeable into such Exchange Debenture, in connection with the Initial Exchange Offer as set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement, nor shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, purchased by such underwriter under the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to (x) the aggregate principal amount of Old Debentures exchanged in the Initial Exchange Offer (before deducting expenses), plus (y) the total amount of Additional Interest which the Company was not required to pay as a result of registering the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures covered by the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses, minus (z) the aggregate amount of Fees paid by the Company in connection with the Initial Exchange Offer under the Dealer Manager Agreement. Benefits received by the Dealer Managers shall be deemed to be equal to the aggregate amount of Fees received by the Dealer Managers in connection with the Initial Exchange Offer under the Dealer Manager Agreement, and benefits received by any Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as applicable, registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section, each person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each director, officer, employee and agent of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
 
(e) The provisions of this shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in this , and shall survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement.
Section 7
Section 7
8. Underwritten Registrations.
(a) If any of the New Debentures covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders, subject to the reasonable approval of the Company.
(b) No Holder may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such Holder (i) agrees to sell such Holder's New Debentures on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements, and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to any of its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
9.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders (or, after the consummation of any Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with hereof, the Holders of a majority in the aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Debentures); provided that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of the Dealer Managers hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of the Dealer Managers against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may alternatively be given by the Majority Holders of the New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
10.
Amendments and Waivers.
Section 2
 
All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
11.
Notices.
(a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of this , which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy in like manner to you;
Section 11
(b) if to you, initially at the address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement; and
(c) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement.
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received.
Each party hereto by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses of such party for subsequent notices or communications.
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of New Debentures and Exchange Debentures. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of New Debentures and Exchange Debentures.
12.
Successors.
This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
13.
Counterparts.
The headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
14.
Headings.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
15.
Applicable Law.
In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
16.
Severability.
Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of New Debentures or Exchange Debentures is required hereunder, New Debentures or Exchange Debentures, as applicable, held by the Company or any of its Affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
17.
Securities Held by the Company, etc.
 
This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate upon the expiration of the Shelf Registration Period, except for any liabilities or obligations under , and hereof and the obligations to make payments of and provide for additional interest under hereof to the extent such damages accrue prior to the end of the Shelf Registration Period, each of which shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
18.
Termination.
Sections 2(e)
6
7
Section 5
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the Dealer Managers.
 
ANNEX A
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Debentures for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Debentures. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Debentures received in exchange for New Debentures where such New Debentures were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date (as defined herein) and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, it will make this Prospectus available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX B
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Debentures for its own account in exchange for New Debentures, where such New Debentures were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Debentures. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX C
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Debentures for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus (the "") in connection with any resale of such Exchange Debentures. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Debentures received in exchange for New Debentures where such New Debentures were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, they will make this Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale.
Prospectus
The Company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of Exchange Debentures by Broker-Dealers. Exchange Debentures received by Broker-Dealers for their own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the Exchange Debentures or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such Broker-Dealer and/or the purchasers of any such Exchange Debentures. Any Broker-Dealer that resells Exchange Debentures that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such Exchange Debentures may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of Exchange Debentures and any commissions or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
For a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date, the Company shall promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any Broker-Dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The Company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Registered Exchange Offer other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the New Debentures (including any Broker-Dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
[If applicable, add information required by Items 507 and 508 of Regulation S-K.]
 
ANNEX D
Rider A
 
 
Rider B
If the undersigned is not a Broker-Dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the Exchange Debentures in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Debentures and it has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in a distribution of the Exchange Debentures. If the undersigned is a Broker-Dealer that will receive Exchange Debentures for its own account in exchange for New Debentures, it represents that the New Debentures to be exchanged for Exchange Debentures were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Debentures; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 

Exhibit 99
 
DECATUR, Ill., Oct. 15, 2012  Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) announced today the results as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on October 12, 2012 (the "Expiration Date") of its private offers to exchange its outstanding debentures listed below (collectively, the "Old Debentures") for its 4.016% Debentures due 2043 (the "New Debentures") and cash (the "Exchange Offers"), in accordance with ADM's confidential offering memorandum dated September 14, 2012, as amended by the press release issued by ADM on September 28, 2012 (the "Offering Memorandum") and the related letter of transmittal.
According to information provided by D.F. King & Co., Inc., the exchange agent for the Exchange Offers, $567,883,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Old Debentures were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in the Exchange Offers (the "Tendered Debentures"). The table below indicates the principal amount of each series of Old Debentures outstanding at the commencement of the Exchange Offers and the principal amount of each series of Old Debentures validly tendered and not validly withdrawn as of the Expiration Date.
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Tendered Debentures was in excess of $540,000,000, the maximum amount of Old Debentures to be accepted for exchange pursuant to the Offering Memorandum. Instead of accepting the Tendered Debentures on a prorated basis, ADM has accepted additional Tendered Debentures for exchange pursuant to ADM's right under federal securities laws to accept up to an additional 2% of the outstanding debentures subject to the Exchange Offers without extending the Exchange Offers. Accordingly, all of the Tendered Debentures have been accepted for exchange. The settlement date for the Tendered Debentures is expected to be October 16, 2012.
The New Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or any state securities laws. Therefore, the New Debentures may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws. ADM will enter into a registration rights agreement with respect to the New Debentures.
This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. The Exchange Offers are being made solely by the Offering Memorandum and related letter of transmittal and only to such persons and in such jurisdictions as is permitted under applicable law.
Forward-Looking Information
This press release includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the current market demand for these types of securities and the securities of ADM and the negotiations between ADM and the dealer managers. These risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Other risks that could impact the offering are described in detail in the ADM Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to ADM and ADM assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
Media Relations Contact
Jackie Anderson
media@adm.com
217-424-5413
Investor Relations Contact
Ruth Ann Wisener
217-451-8286


