FILE:ADM/ADM-8K-20120731151808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
       July 31, 2012
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
ADM Reports Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings of $284 Million or $0.43 per Share
Adjusted EPS of $0.38, down from year-ago quarter
Segment operating profit declined on negative ethanol margins and weaker Ag Services results
For the full fiscal year, dividends and share repurchases of nearly $1 billion
DECATUR, Ill., July 31, 2012  Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The company reported net earnings for the quarter of $284 million, or $0.43 per share, down from $0.58 per share in the same period one year earlier. Adjusted earnings per share were $0.38. Segment operating profit was $544 million.
1
1
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, net earnings were $1.2 billion, or $1.84 per share. Adjusted earnings per share were $2.25. Segment operating profit was $2.5 billion.
In a challenging fourth quarter, solid results from our global oilseeds business, particularly in South America, were more than offset by negative U.S. ethanol margins and weaker U.S. merchandising results, said ADM Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz.
 
As we look ahead, while drought has reduced the potential size of the U.S. corn crop, we are tracking the development of other crops in North America and Europe, added Woertz. While U.S. crop carryouts are expected to be low, we have an experienced business team to manage through this environment.
Conditions like these demonstrate the vital role of our global agribusiness. As weather has regional effects on crops, we respond by working with our customers to provide the best alternatives to meet their needs from all growing regions of the world.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
Non-GAAP financial measures, see pages 5 and 12 for explanations and reconciliations
1
 
 
 
 
Adjusted EPS of 38 Cents, down 31 Cents
Adjusted EPS decreased primarily due to lower segment operating profit, partially offset by lower corporate expenses.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 30 percent, resulting in an annual rate of 30 percent.
Oilseeds Earnings Down on Absence of Year-Ago Timing Gains and Weakness in Cocoa and Other
Oilseeds operating profit in the fourth quarter was $331 million, down $118 million from the same period one year earlier.
Crushing and origination operating profit was $150 million, down $76 million from the year-ago quarter. Significantly improved South American soybean and origination results were offset by lower North American softseeds crushing margins, and the absence of favorable mark-to-market timing effects in Europe that benefited the prior year. The net decrease in results from timing effects was approximately $70 million.
Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other generated a profit of $84 million for the quarter, down 
$6 million mainly on weaker biodiesel results from Europe.
Cocoa and other results declined $19 million, primarily due to weaker cocoa press margins in the quarter.
Oilseeds results in Asia for the quarter were down $17 million from the prior years fourth quarter, principally reflecting ADMs share of the results from its equity investee Wilmar International Limited.
Corn Processing Results Lower on Negative Ethanol Margins
Corn processing operating profit was $74 million, a decrease of $48 million from the same period one year earlier.
Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $124 million to $135 million, amid continued good sweetener export demand and higher average selling prices. The year-ago quarters results were negatively impacted by higher net corn costs related to the timing effects of economic hedges, whose mark-to-market gains were recognized earlier in the fiscal year.
Bioproducts results in the quarter decreased $172 million to a loss of $61 million. Significantly weaker ethanol results more than offset improvements in other bioproducts businesses. Industry ethanol replacement margins were negative throughout the quarter, as the industry supply continued to exceed demand.
 
 
 
 
Agricultural Services Results Fall on Lower U.S. Exports
Agricultural Services operating profit was $123 million, down $222 million from the same period one year earlier.
Merchandising and handling earnings fell $152 million to $30 million due to lower U.S. merchandising results and lower U.S. crop supplies, which reduced North American export volumes. Results for the quarter also reflected an increase in loss provisions of approximately $40 million.
Transportation results increased $5 million to $17 million.
Excluding last years $78 million gain related to ADMs share of Gruma S.A.B. de C.V.s sale of assets, Milling and other results were steady.
Other Financial Results Slightly Up
In the fourth quarter, operating profit from ADMs Other Financial businesses was $16 million, up $11 million from the same period one year earlier. The improvement was primarily a result of lower captive insurance loss reserves, and better results at ADM Investor Services.
Current Landscape Assessment
The smaller South American spring harvest means that the U.S. is currently the primary global supplier of soybeans and meal. U.S. corn and soybean yields have been reduced by drought; wheat was less affected. Generally high crop prices will encourage large planted acreage in South America. Global protein meal demand remains good. Poor margins have lowered U.S. ethanol industry production which is reducing inventories. Demand for corn sweeteners remains solid, supported by exports.
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
ADM will host a conference call and audio webcast Tuesday, July 31, 2012, at 8 a.m. Central Time to discuss financial results and provide a company update. A financial summary slide presentation will be available to download approximately 60 minutes prior to the call.
To listen to the call via the Internet or to download the slide presentation, go to www.adm.com/webcast. To listen by telephone, dial (888) 522-5398 in the U.S. or (706) 902-2121 if calling from outside the U.S. The access code is 95403712.
A replay of the call will be available from Aug. 1, 2012 to Aug. 6, 2012. To listen to the replay by telephone, dial (855) 859-2056 in the U.S. or (404) 537-3406 if calling from outside the U.S. The access code is 95403712. To listen to the replay online, visit www.adm.com/webcast.
About ADM
For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) have transformed crops into products that serve vital needs. Today, 30,000 ADM employees around the globe convert oilseeds, corn, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses. With more than 270 processing plants, 420 crop procurement facilities, and the worlds premier crop transportation network, ADM helps connect the harvest to the home in more than 160 countries. For more information about ADM and its products, visit www.adm.com.
Archer Daniels Midland Company
Media Relations Contact
David Weintraub
217-424-5413
Investor Relations Contact
Ruth Ann Wisener
217-451-8286
Financial Tables Follow
 
 
 
 
Segment Operating Profit and Corporate Results
(1)
(unaudited)
A non-GAAP financial measure
 
 
Total segment operating profit is ADMs consolidated income from operations before income tax that excludes certain corporate items. Management believes that segment operating profit is a useful measure of ADMs performance because it provides investors information about ADMs business unit performance excluding certain corporate overhead costs. Total segment operating profit is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not intended to replace earnings before income tax, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Total segment operating profit is not a measure of consolidated operating results under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to income before income taxes or any other measure of consolidated operating results under U.S. GAAP.
(1) Beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, ADM realigned segment operating profit to reflect a change in how the company manages its businesses.  As a result, ADM now reports Cocoa processing results as part of a new category in Oilseeds called Cocoa and Other and Milling results in an Agricultural Services category called Milling and Other.  In addition, beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, the company discontinued the allocation of working capital interest to the operating segments.  Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Quarterly Segment Operating Profit and Corporate Results
(1)
(unaudited)
A non-GAAP financial measure
(1) Beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, ADM realigned segment operating profit to reflect a change in how the company manages its businesses.  As a result, ADM now reports Cocoa processing results as part of a new category in Oilseeds called Cocoa and Other and Milling results in an Agricultural Services category called Milling and Other.  In addition, beginning fourth quarter fiscal 2012, the company discontinued the allocation of working capital interest to the operating segments.  Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Financial Condition
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
 
(1) Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
Segment Operating Analysis
(unaudited)
(1) Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
A non-GAAP financial measure
(unaudited)
Adjusted EPS is ADMs fully diluted EPS after removal of the effect on Reported EPS of certain specified items as more fully described above. Management believes that Adjusted EPS is a useful measure of ADMs performance because it provides investors additional information about ADMs operations allowing better evaluation of ongoing business performance. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not intended to replace or be an alternative to EPS, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, or any other measures of operating results under GAAP. Earnings amounts in the tables above have been divided by the companys diluted shares outstanding for each respective quarter in order to arrive at an adjusted EPS amount for each specified item.
 
 



