Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward looking statements, except as required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 Business Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (Costco or the Company) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. We are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and Puerto Rico, Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Japan, Australia, and through majority owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol COST. Historically, our operations in Mexico were through a 50% owned joint venture (Mexico). On July 10, 2012 we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mexico from our joint venture partner. At the beginning of fiscal 2011, we began consolidating our Mexico joint venture due to the adoption of a new accounting standard. Mexicos results previously were accounted for under the equity method and our 50% share was included in interest income and other, net in the consolidated statements of income. In fiscal 2011 and 2012, Mexicos operations are fully consolidated and the joint venture partners 50% share, through the acquisition date, is included in net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in the consolidated statement of income. After the acquisition date, 100% of Mexicos operations are included in net income attributable to Costco. See discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. We report on a 52/53 week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53 week year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is an increased level of net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2012 relate to the 53 week fiscal year ended September 2, 2012. References to 2011 and 2010 relate to the 52 week fiscal years ended August 28, 2011 and August 29, 2010, respectively. General We operate membership warehouses based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and select private label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no frills, self service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters. We buy the majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross docking consolidation point (depot) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive container based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty four hours. This process maximizes freight volume and handling efficiencies, eliminating many of the costs associated with traditional multiple step distribution channels. Such traditional steps include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor. Because of our high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, we generally sell inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts when available. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers rather than by our working capital. 4 Table of Contents Item 1 Business (Continued) Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the availability of low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to amounts well below those of typical discount retail operations. Marketing and promotional activities generally relate to new warehouse openings, occasional direct mail to prospective new members, and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, weekly emails from costco.com and costco.ca, and handouts) to existing members promoting selected merchandise. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to typical retailers. Our warehouses generally operate on a seven day, 69 hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier weekend closing hours. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse type operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, thereby reducing labor required for handling and stocking. Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than they can obtain elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast selling models, sizes, and colors. Therefore, we carry an average of approximately 3,300 to 3,800 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, as opposed to a significantly higher number of SKUs at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple pack quantities only. In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a 90 day return policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty. Additional third party warranty coverage is sold on certain electronic item purchases. The following table indicates the approximate percentage of annual net sales accounted for by major category of items: 2012 2011 20101 Sundries (including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional supplies) 22 % 22 % 23 % Hardlines (including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, cameras, garden and patio, sporting goods, toys, seasonal items and automotive supplies) 16 % 17 % 18 % Food (including dry and institutionally packaged foods) 21 % 21 % 21 % Softlines (including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings and small appliances) 10 % 10 % 10 % Fresh Food (including meat, bakery, deli and produce) 13 % 12 % 12 % Ancillary and Other (including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one hour photo, hearing aid and travel) 18 % 18 % 16 % 1 Excludes Mexico 5 Table of Contents Item 1 Business (Continued) Ancillary businesses within or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year end: 2012 2011 20102 Food Court 602 586 534 One Hour Photo Centers 591 581 530 Optical Dispensing Centers 589 574 523 Pharmacies 544 529 480 Hearing Aid Centers 469 427 357 Gas Stations 394 368 343 Print Shops and Copy Centers 10 10 10 Car Washes 7 7 7 Number of warehouses 608 592 540 2 Excludes the 32 warehouses operated in Mexico Our online businesses at costco.com in the U.S. and costco.ca in Canada, provide our members additional products generally not found in our warehouses, in addition to services such as digital photo processing, pharmacy, travel, and membership services. Our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards, American Express and a private label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making further purchases until restitution is made. We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able to obtain alternative sources without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to brand name items. Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Membership Policy Our membership format is designed to reinforce member loyalty and provide a continuing source of membership fee revenue. Members can utilize their membership at any Costco warehouse location in any country. We have two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). Our member renewal rate was approximately 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and approximately 86.4% on a worldwide basis in 2012, consistent with recent years. The renewal rate is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date. Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence, may become Business members. Business members generally pay an annual membership fee of approximately $55 for the primary card holder, with add on membership cards available for an annual fee of approximately $55 each. Many of our business members also shop at Costco for their personal needs. Gold Star memberships are also available for an annual fee of approximately $55 to individuals who may not qualify for a Business membership. All paid memberships include a free household card. 6 Table of Contents Item 1 Business (Continued) Our membership was made up of the following (in thousands): 2012 2011 20101 Gold Star 26,700 25,000 22,500 Business 6,400 6,300 5,800 Business, Add on Primary 3,800 4,000 3,300 Total primary cardholders 36,900 35,300 31,600 Additional cardholders 30,100 28,700 26,400 Total cardholders 67,000 64,000 58,000 1 Excludes approximately 2,900 cardholders in Mexico. Executive membership is available to all members, with the exception of Business Add on members, in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the United Kingdom for an annual fee of approximately $110. This program, excluding Mexico, offers additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer services, such as check printing services, auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, online investing, and merchant credit card processing. The services are generally provided by third parties and vary by country and state. In addition, Executive members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases. At the end of 2012, 2011, and 2010, Executive members represented 38%, 38%, and 36%, respectively, of our primary membership. Executive members generally spend more than other members, and the percentage of our net sales attributable to these members continues to increase. Effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewing members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business Add on and Canada Business members to $55. Our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fee increased from $100 to $110 annually and the Executive Membership 2% reward annual limit increased from $500 to $750. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Labor Our employee count approximated: 2012 2011 20102 Full time employees 96,000 92,000 82,000 Part time employees 78,000 72,000 65,000 Total employees 174,000 164,000 147,000 2 Excludes approximately 9,000 individuals employed in Mexico. Approximately 13,700 hourly employees in certain of our locations in five states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All remaining employees are non union. We consider our employee relations to be very good. Competition Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. We compete with over 800 warehouse club locations across 7 Table of Contents Item 1 Business (Continued) the U.S. and Canada (primarily Wal Marts Sams Club and BJs Wholesale Club), and every major metropolitan area has multiple club operations. In addition, we compete with a wide range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet based retailers. Competitors such as Wal Mart, Target, Kohls and Amazon.com are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with low cost operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowes, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Kroger, Trader Joes, Whole Foods, CVS, Walgreens and Best Buy. Our international operations face similar types of competitors. Regulation Certain state laws require that we apply minimum markups to our selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and gasoline. While compliance with such laws may cause us to charge higher prices, other retailers are also typically governed by the same restrictions, and we believe that compliance with such laws currently in effect do not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Intellectual Property We believe that, to varying degrees, our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents, trade dress, domain names and similar intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale&reg; series of trademarks and our private label brand, Kirkland Signature&reg;. We believe that Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower than those for national brand products and that they help lower costs, differentiate our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and generally earn higher margins. We expect to increase the sales penetration of our private label items in the future. We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our suppliers, employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. The availability and duration of trademark registrations vary from country to country; however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and their registrations are properly maintained. Available Information Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers pursuant to Section 406 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale 8 Table of Contents Item 1 Business (Continued) Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027. If the Company makes any amendments to this code (other than technical, administrative, or non substantive amendments) or grants any waivers, including implicit waivers, from this code to the CEO, chief financial officer or controller, we will disclose (on our website or in a Form 8 K report filed with the SEC) the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date, and to whom it applies. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Costco, their position, and ages are listed below. All executive officers have 25 or more years of service with the Company. Effective January 1, 2012, Jim Sinegal retired as our Chief Executive Officer but is continuing with the Company in an advisory role until February 2013. In addition, he will continue to serve on the Board of Directors. Name Position ExecutiveOfficerSince Age W. Craig Jelinek President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012 and has been a director since February 2010. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2010 to December 2011. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004. 1995 60 Jeffrey H. Brotman Chairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co founder of Costco and has been a director since its inception. 1983 70 Richard A. Galanti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director since January 1995. 1993 56 Franz Lazarus Executive Vice President, Administration. Mr. Lazarus was Senior Vice President, Administration Global Operations since 2006. 2012 65 John McKay Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division. Mr. McKay was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region from 2000 to March 2010. 2010 55 Paul G. Moulton Executive Vice President of Information Systems. Mr. Moulton was Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development until March 2010. 2001 61 James P. Murphy Executive Vice President, International. Mr. Murphy was Senior Vice President, International, from September 2004 to October 2010. 2011 59 Joseph P. Portera Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions. Chief Diversity Officer since 2010. 1994 60 Douglas W. Schutt Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. Mr. Schutt was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division and Midwest Region from 2004 to March 2010. 2004 53 Thomas K. Walker Executive Vice President, Construction and Distribution. 2004 72 Dennis R. Zook Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest Division and Mexico. 1993 63 9 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. We could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. You should review these Risk Factors carefully in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse club operators, supermarkets, supercenter stores, department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet based retailers. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, and store hours. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the retail markets and member expectations could result in lost market share and negatively affect our financial results. Some competitors may have greater financial resources, better access to merchandise and greater market penetration than we do. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Higher energy costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign currency exchange rates, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes related to government fiscal and tax policies, sovereign debt crises, and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services or require a change in the mix of products we sell. Prices of certain commodity products, including gasoline and other food products, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs and or selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can also be affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events. We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian operations. Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and Canadian operations, which comprised 88% and 83% of consolidated net sales and operating income in 2012, respectively. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 24% of consolidated net sales in 2012. Our California market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations, particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from, among other things: failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable warehouse sales growth rates and expectations; negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; cannibalizing existing locations with 10 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality products and innovative new products to retain our existing member base and attract new members. We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding our business, both in existing markets and in new markets, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property, and build or lease new warehouses. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouses. We also may have difficulty negotiating leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us, within their jurisdictions. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively may affect our ability to timely build or lease new warehouses, which could have a material adverse affect on our future growth and profitability. We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share. Because our warehouses typically draw members from their local areas, a new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect comparable warehouse sales performance and member traffic at those existing warehouses. We also intend to open warehouses in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators currently operating in the new market, our lack of familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new warehouses will be profitably deployed and, as a result, our future profitability could be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to sustainability of product sources) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins (net sales less merchandise costs) and operating income. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) Our failure to maintain positive membership loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our results of operations. Membership loyalty is essential to our business model. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable warehouse sales, lower employee morale and productivity, diminish member trust, and reduce member renewal rates and, accordingly, membership fee revenues, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. In addition, we sell many products under our owned and exclusive Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our Kirkland Signature products for our customers is essential to developing and maintaining customer loyalty. These products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature brand experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected. Vendors may be unable to supply us with quality merchandise at the right prices in a timely manner or may fail to adhere to our high standards resulting in adverse affects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales and profit margins. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out of stock positions of our merchandise leading to loss of sales and profits. We purchase our merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers and have thousands of vendor relationships. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing vendors. Because of our efforts to adhere to high quality standards for which available supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volume we demand may not be consistently available. Our suppliers are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, and general economic and political conditions that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. For these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, legal or regulatory standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to litigation and recalls, which could damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business. Disruptions in our depot operations could adversely affect sales and member satisfaction. We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, labor shortages or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, typhoons or earthquakes, particularly in California or in Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more warehouses or depots, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long term disruption in the supply of products from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods to or from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our warehouses or depots within the countries in which we operate, and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu (swine flu) pandemic, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or members, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and warehouse operations. Increased U.S and foreign government and agency regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs that could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and which also could face increased regulation. Climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2012, our international operations, including Canada, generated 28% of our consolidated net sales. We plan to continue expanding our international operations. As a result of these expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S., but many of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations and exchange rates, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have been historically less stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our future costs or on future profits and cash flows from our international operations. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, sales returns reserves, impairment of long lived assets, inventories, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, self insurance liabilities, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Provisions for losses related to self insured risks are generally based upon independent actuarially determined estimates. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses can be highly unpredictable, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. We expect our healthcare costs to increase, though not materially, as a result of this legislation. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Unfavorable changes in tax rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, any change in the enacted tax rates, any adverse outcome in connection with any income tax audits in any jurisdiction, including transfer pricing disputes, or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant changes in, or failure to comply with, federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non hazardous wastes and other environmental matters could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non hazardous wastes and other environmental matters. Any failure to comply with these laws could result in significant costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and, while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires compliance with a great variety of laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines and penalties. We are, or may become involved, in a number of legal proceedings and audits including grand jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation (see discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of managements attention and resources. We are subject to the risks of selling unsafe products which could result in illness or injury to our members, harm our reputation and subject us to litigation. If our merchandise offerings, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs, childrens products, and pet products, do not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety standards or our members expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. The sale of these items involves the risk of health related illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases. Our vendors are generally contractually required to comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits or government investigations relating to such matters resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image and these effects could be long term. If we do not maintain the privacy and security of member related and business information, we could damage our reputation with members, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our members. In addition, our online operations at www.costco.com and www.costco.ca depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of our business partners that results in our members personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security 15 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Additionally, the use of individually identifiable data by our business and our business associates is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non compliance. Our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have an adverse effect on our business. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Failure to adequately update our systems and disruptions in both our primary and back up systems could harm our ability to run our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Although we believe that we have independent, redundant primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year it is important that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We expect to make significant technology investments in the coming years, which are key to managing our business. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A Risk Factors (Continued) If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to shop online. As part of our multichannel strategy, we are making technology investments in our websites and recently launched a mobile application for mobile phones and other electronic devices. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant member facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our online businesses or our other member facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of member confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Our inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other than an annual agreement with our CEO, Mr. Jelinek, we have no employment agreements with our officers. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key man insurance. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable warehouse sales growth rates, margins, earnings and earnings per share or new warehouse openings could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase policies. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents Item 2 Properties Warehouse Properties At September 2, 2012, we operated 608 membership warehouses: NUMBER OF WAREHOUSES Own Landand Building Lease Landand orBuilding(1) Total United States and Puerto Rico 350 89 439 Canada 72 10 82 Mexico 31 1 32 United Kingdom 19 3 22 Japan 1 12 13 Taiwan 9 9 Korea 3 5 8 Australia 2 1 3 Total 478 130 608 (1) 91 of the 130 leases are land leases only, where Costco owns the building. The following schedule shows warehouse openings (net of closings) by region for the past five fiscal years and expected warehouse openings (net of closings) through December 31, 2012: Openings by Fiscal Year United States Canada OtherInternational Total Total Warehousesin Operation 2008 and prior 398 75 39 512 512 2009 8 2 5 15 527 2010 10 2 1 13 540 2011 13 3 36 (2) 52 592 2012 10 6 16 608 2013 (expected through 12/31/12) 9 3 2 14 622 Total 448 85 89 622 (2) This number includes the 32 Mexico warehouses in operation at the beginning of 2011, when we began consolidating Mexico. Mexico opened 31 warehouses prior to 2009 and one in 2009. At the end of 2012, our warehouses contained approximately 86.9 million square feet of operating floor space: 63.7 million in the U.S.; 11.2 million in Canada; and 12.0 million in other international locations. Our executive offices are located in Issaquah, Washington and occupy approximately 590,000 square feet. We operate eight regional offices in the U.S., two regional offices in Canada and six regional offices internationally, containing approximately 423,000 square feet. Additionally, we operate regional cross docking facilities (depots) for the consolidation and distribution of most merchandise shipments to the warehouses, and various processing, packaging, and other facilities to support ancillary and other businesses. We operate 12 depots in the U.S., four in Canada and five internationally, consisting of approximately 8.7 million square feet. Item 3 Legal Proceedings See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents PART II Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Dividend Policy Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol COST. On October 5, 2012, we had 8,154 stockholders of record. The following table shows the quarterly high and low closing sale prices as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the quarterly cash dividend declared per share of our common stock. Price Range CashDividendsDeclared High Low 2012: Fourth Quarter $ 98.59 $ 82.62 $ 0.550  (1) Third Quarter 91.84 83.24   (2) Second Quarter 88.06 79.01 0.240 First Quarter 85.30 77.79 0.240 2011: Fourth Quarter 83.86 70.39 0.240 Third Quarter 81.46 69.76 0.240 Second Quarter 75.04 66.90 0.205 First Quarter 67.02 56.07 0.205 (1) Our current quarterly dividend rate is $0.275 per share. The amount shown includes the dividend declared on May 9, 2012, in addition to the fourth quarter dividend declared on July 23, 2012. See footnote 2. (2) On May 9, 2012, subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.275 per share. Payment of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Factors considered in determining dividends are our profitability and expected capital needs. Subject to these qualifications, we presently expect to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information on our common stock repurchase program activity for the 17 week fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 (dollars in millions, except per share data): Period(3) TotalNumberof SharesPurchased AveragePrice Paidper Share Total Number ofSharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedProgram(4) Maximum DollarValue of Sharesthat May Yet bePurchased Underthe Program(4) May 7 June 3, 2012 950,000 $ 84.32 950,000 $ 3,178 June 4 July 1, 2012 400,000 89.54 400,000 $ 3,142 July 2 July 29, 2012 180,000 94.20 180,000 $ 3,125 July 30 September 2, 2012 373,000 95.87 373,000 $ 3,089 Total fourth quarter 1,903,000 $ 88.61 1,903,000 (3) Monthly information is presented by reference to our fiscal periods during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. (4) Our stock repurchase program is conducted under a $4,000 authorization of our Board of Directors approved in April 2011, which expires in April 2015. 19 Table of Contents Item 6 Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth certain information concerning our consolidated financial condition, operating results, and key operating metrics. This information should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, included in Item 8 of this Report. In July 2012, we purchased from our former joint venture partner its 50% equity interest of Costco Mexico (Mexico) for $789. At the beginning of fiscal 2011, we began consolidating Mexico, at that time a 50% owned joint venture, on a prospective basis due to the adoption of a new accounting standard. In the table below, Mexicos results for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, were accounted for under the equity method and our 50% share was included in interest income and other, net. For fiscal 2012 and 2011, the financial position and results of Mexicos operations are fully consolidated and the joint venture partners share is included in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (dollars in millions, except per share and warehouse number data) As of and for the year ended Sept. 2, 2012(53 weeks) Aug. 28, 2011(52 weeks) Aug. 29, 2010(52 weeks) Aug. 30, 2009(52 weeks) Aug. 31, 2008(52 weeks) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 $ 69,889 $ 70,977 Merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 62,335 63,503 Gross margin 10,239 9,309 8,260 7,554 7,474 Membership fees 2,075 1,867 1,691 1,533 1,506 Operating income 2,759 2,439 2,077 1,777 1,969 Net income attributable to Costco 1,709 1,462 1,303 1,086 1,283 Net income per diluted common share attributable to Costco 3.89 3.30 2.92 2.47 2.89 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.03 $ 0.89 $ 0.77 $ 0.68 $ 0.61 Increase (decrease) in comparable warehouse sales(1) United States 7 % 7 % 4 % (2 %) 6 % International 6 % 16 % 19 % (8 %) 15 % Total 7 % 10 % 7 % (4 %) 8 % Increase in international comparable warehouse sales in local currency 8 % 10 % 8 % 7 % 6 % BALANCE SHEET DATA Net property and equipment $ 12,961 $ 12,432 $ 11,314 $ 10,900 $ 10,355 Total assets 27,140 26,761 23,815 21,979 20,682 Current portion of long term debt 1 900 80 6 Long term debt, excluding current portion 1,381 1,253 2,141 2,130 2,206 Costco stockholders equity $ 12,361 $ 12,002 $ 10,829 $ 10,024 $ 9,194 WAREHOUSE INFORMATION Warehouses in Operation(2) Beginning of year(2) 592 572 527 512 488 Opened(3) 17 24 14 19 34 Closed(3) (1 ) (4 ) (1 ) (4 ) (10 ) End of year 608 592 540 527 512 (1) Includes net sales at warehouses open more than one year, including relocated facilities. For fiscal 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 53 weeks. (2) Excludes in 2010 and in prior years presented warehouses operated in Mexico through a 50% owned joint venture. Mexico opened 31 of these warehouses prior to 2009 and one in 2009. The 2011 beginning of year figure includes the 32 Mexico warehouses consolidated at the beginning of the fiscal year. (3) Includes warehouse relocations and the closure in July 2009 of two Costco Home locations. 20 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) OVERVIEW We believe that the most important driver of increasing our profitability is sales growth, particularly comparable sales growth (we report comparable sales as sales in warehouses open for at least one year, including relocations, remodels, and expansions). Comparable sales growth is achieved through increasing the frequency with which our members shop and the amounts that they spend on each visit. Sales comparisons can also be particularly influenced by two factors that are beyond our control, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates (with respect to the consolidation of the results of our international operations) and changes in the cost of gasoline and associated competitive conditions (primarily impacting domestic operations). The higher our comparable sales exclusive of currency fluctuations, the more we can leverage certain of our selling, general and administrative expenses, reducing them as a percentage of sales and enhancing profitability. Generating comparable sales growth is foremost a question of making available to our members the right merchandise at the right prices, a skill that we believe we have repeatedly demonstrated over the long term. Another substantial factor in sales growth is the health of the economies in which we do business, especially the United States. Sales growth and gross margins are also impacted by our competition, which is vigorous and widespread, including a wide range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, and department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet based retailers. While we cannot control or reliably predict general economic health or changes in competition, we believe that we have been successful historically in adapting our business to these changes, such as through adjustments to our pricing and to our merchandise mix, including increasing the penetration of our private label items. Our philosophy is not to focus in the short term on maximizing prices that our members can be charged, but to maintain what we believe is a perception among our members of our pricing authority consistently providing the most competitive values. This may cause us, for example, to absorb increases in merchandise costs at certain times rather than immediately passing them along to our members, negatively impacting gross margin. We also achieve sales growth by opening new warehouses and relocating existing warehouses to larger and better located facilities. As our warehouse base grows, available and desirable potential sites become more difficult to secure, and square footage growth becomes a comparatively less substantial component of growth. However, the negative aspects of such growth, including lower initial operating profitability relative to existing warehouses and cannibalization of sales at existing warehouses when openings occur in existing markets, are lessened. Our rate of square footage growth is higher in foreign markets, due to the smaller base in those markets, and we expect that to continue. Our financial performance also depends heavily on our ability to control costs. While we believe that we have achieved successes in this area historically, some significant costs are partially outside our control, most particularly health care and utility expenses. With respect to expenses relating to the compensation of our employees, our philosophy is not to seek to minimize the wages and benefits that they earn. Rather, we believe that achieving our longer term objectives of reducing employee turnover and enhancing employee satisfaction requires maintaining compensation levels that are better than the industry average for much of our workforce. This may cause us, for example, to absorb costs that other employers might seek to pass through to their workforces. Because our business is operated on very low margins, modest changes in various items in the income statement, particularly gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses, can have substantial impacts on net income. Our operating model is generally the same across our U.S., Canada, and Other International segments (see Item 8, Note 12 of this Report). Certain countries in the Other International segment have relatively higher rates of square footage growth, lower wage and benefits as a percentage of country sales, and or less direct membership warehouse competition. Additionally, we operate our lower margin gasoline business only in the United States and Canada. 21 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) In discussions of our consolidated operating results, we refer to the impact of changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which are references to the differences between the foreign exchange rates we use to convert the financial results of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. This impact of foreign exchange rate changes is typically calculated as the difference between the current year currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year currency exchange rates. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. Fiscal 2012 is a 53 week year ending on September 2, 2012, while fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were 52 week periods. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco. Highlights for fiscal year 2012 included: Net sales increased 11.5% to $97,062, driven by a 7% increase in comparable sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Net sales were favorably impacted by increases in the price of gasoline, partially offset by the weakening of certain foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; Membership fees increased 11.1% to $2,075, primarily due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fees in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011; Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales decreased 14 basis points. This comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $66 lower LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to 2011; Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of net sales improved 17 basis points; Net income in 2012 increased 16.9% to $1,709, or $3.89 per diluted share compared to $1,462, or $3.30 per diluted share in 2011; The Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share; We repurchased 7,272 shares of our common stock, at an average cost of $84.75 per share, totaling approximately $617; and In July, we purchased from our joint venture partner, Controladora Comercial Mexicana, its 50% equity interest in Costco Mexico for $789. 22 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS(1) Net Sales 2012 2011 2010 Net Sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Increases in net sales: U.S. 10.6 % 8.9 % 5.4 % International 13.9 % 31.1 %(2) 23.2 % Total Company 11.5 % 14.2 %(2) 9.1 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales(3): U.S. 7 % 7 % 4 % International 6 % 16 % 19 % Total Company 7 % 10 % 7 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales excluding the impact of gasoline price inflation and foreign currencies(3): U.S. 6 % 5 % 2 % International 8 % 10 % 8 % Total Company 6 % 6 % 4 % (1) Only the 2012 and 2011 data in the accompanying tables includes Mexico. (2) The percentage increase in net sales for 2011 from 2010 was positively impacted by the initial consolidation of Mexico beginning in fiscal 2011. Excluding Mexico, the International and Total Company increases in net sales would have been 17.6% and 11.0%, respectively. (3) For 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 53 weeks. 2012 vs. 2011 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,014 or 11.5% during 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable warehouse sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $801 or 92 basis points, which resulted from an 8% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2012. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $597, or 69 basis points during 2012. The negative impact in 2012 was primarily due to negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won of approximately $310, $255 and $57, respectively, partially offset by a positive impact of the Japanese yen of approximately $81. Comparable Sales Comparable sales increased 7% during 2012, and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the average amount spent by our members. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results during 2012, while changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 23 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,793 or 14.2% during 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding sales of Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 11%. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in comparable warehouse sales, and the remainder primarily from sales at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,699 or 223 basis points, which resulted from a 24% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,308, or 172 basis points during 2011. The positive impact in 2011 was primarily due to positive impacts in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Mexican peso of approximately $728, $157 and $152, respectively. Comparable Sales Comparable sales, including Mexico for both 2011 and 2010, increased 10% during 2011, and were positively impacted by increases in the average amount spent by our members and in their shopping frequency. Gasoline price inflation and changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted comparable sales results in 2011. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). Membership Fees 2012 2011 2010 Membership fees $ 2,075 $ 1,867 $ 1,691 Membership fees increase 11.1 % 10.4 % 10.3 % Membership fees as a percent of net sales 2.13 % 2.15 % 2.22 % Total cardholders (000s) 67,000 64,000 58,000 2012 vs. 2011 Membership fees increased 11.1% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. Our member renewal rates are consistent with recent years, currently 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86.4% on a worldwide basis. As previously reported, effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110, and the maximum 2% reward associated with Executive Membership increased from $500 to $750 annually. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee revenues during 2012 of approximately $37 and will continue to have an impact in the next several quarters. We expect this increase to positively impact membership fee revenue by approximately $121 in fiscal 2013. 24 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) OVERVIEW We believe that the most important driver of increasing our profitability is sales growth, particularly comparable sales growth (we report comparable sales as sales in warehouses open for at least one year, including relocations, remodels, and expansions). Comparable sales growth is achieved through increasing the frequency with which our members shop and the amounts that they spend on each visit. Sales comparisons can also be particularly influenced by two factors that are beyond our control, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates (with respect to the consolidation of the results of our international operations) and changes in the cost of gasoline and associated competitive conditions (primarily impacting domestic operations). The higher our comparable sales exclusive of currency fluctuations, the more we can leverage certain of our selling, general and administrative expenses, reducing them as a percentage of sales and enhancing profitability. Generating comparable sales growth is foremost a question of making available to our members the right merchandise at the right prices, a skill that we believe we have repeatedly demonstrated over the long term. Another substantial factor in sales growth is the health of the economies in which we do business, especially the United States. Sales growth and gross margins are also impacted by our competition, which is vigorous and widespread, including a wide range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, and department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet based retailers. While we cannot control or reliably predict general economic health or changes in competition, we believe that we have been successful historically in adapting our business to these changes, such as through adjustments to our pricing and to our merchandise mix, including increasing the penetration of our private label items. Our philosophy is not to focus in the short term on maximizing prices that our members can be charged, but to maintain what we believe is a perception among our members of our pricing authority consistently providing the most competitive values. This may cause us, for example, to absorb increases in merchandise costs at certain times rather than immediately passing them along to our members, negatively impacting gross margin. We also achieve sales growth by opening new warehouses and relocating existing warehouses to larger and better located facilities. As our warehouse base grows, available and desirable potential sites become more difficult to secure, and square footage growth becomes a comparatively less substantial component of growth. However, the negative aspects of such growth, including lower initial operating profitability relative to existing warehouses and cannibalization of sales at existing warehouses when openings occur in existing markets, are lessened. Our rate of square footage growth is higher in foreign markets, due to the smaller base in those markets, and we expect that to continue. Our financial performance also depends heavily on our ability to control costs. While we believe that we have achieved successes in this area historically, some significant costs are partially outside our control, most particularly health care and utility expenses. With respect to expenses relating to the compensation of our employees, our philosophy is not to seek to minimize the wages and benefits that they earn. Rather, we believe that achieving our longer term objectives of reducing employee turnover and enhancing employee satisfaction requires maintaining compensation levels that are better than the industry average for much of our workforce. This may cause us, for example, to absorb costs that other employers might seek to pass through to their workforces. Because our business is operated on very low margins, modest changes in various items in the income statement, particularly gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses, can have substantial impacts on net income. Our operating model is generally the same across our U.S., Canada, and Other International segments (see Item 8, Note 12 of this Report). Certain countries in the Other International segment have relatively higher rates of square footage growth, lower wage and benefits as a percentage of country sales, and or less direct membership warehouse competition. Additionally, we operate our lower margin gasoline business only in the United States and Canada. 21 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) In discussions of our consolidated operating results, we refer to the impact of changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which are references to the differences between the foreign exchange rates we use to convert the financial results of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. This impact of foreign exchange rate changes is typically calculated as the difference between the current year currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year currency exchange rates. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. Fiscal 2012 is a 53 week year ending on September 2, 2012, while fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were 52 week periods. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco. Highlights for fiscal year 2012 included: Net sales increased 11.5% to $97,062, driven by a 7% increase in comparable sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Net sales were favorably impacted by increases in the price of gasoline, partially offset by the weakening of certain foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; Membership fees increased 11.1% to $2,075, primarily due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fees in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011; Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales decreased 14 basis points. This comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $66 lower LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to 2011; Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of net sales improved 17 basis points; Net income in 2012 increased 16.9% to $1,709, or $3.89 per diluted share compared to $1,462, or $3.30 per diluted share in 2011; The Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share; We repurchased 7,272 shares of our common stock, at an average cost of $84.75 per share, totaling approximately $617; and In July, we purchased from our joint venture partner, Controladora Comercial Mexicana, its 50% equity interest in Costco Mexico for $789. 22 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS(1) Net Sales 2012 2011 2010 Net Sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Increases in net sales: U.S. 10.6 % 8.9 % 5.4 % International 13.9 % 31.1 %(2) 23.2 % Total Company 11.5 % 14.2 %(2) 9.1 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales(3): U.S. 7 % 7 % 4 % International 6 % 16 % 19 % Total Company 7 % 10 % 7 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales excluding the impact of gasoline price inflation and foreign currencies(3): U.S. 6 % 5 % 2 % International 8 % 10 % 8 % Total Company 6 % 6 % 4 % (1) Only the 2012 and 2011 data in the accompanying tables includes Mexico. (2) The percentage increase in net sales for 2011 from 2010 was positively impacted by the initial consolidation of Mexico beginning in fiscal 2011. Excluding Mexico, the International and Total Company increases in net sales would have been 17.6% and 11.0%, respectively. (3) For 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 53 weeks. 2012 vs. 2011 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,014 or 11.5% during 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable warehouse sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $801 or 92 basis points, which resulted from an 8% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2012. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $597, or 69 basis points during 2012. The negative impact in 2012 was primarily due to negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won of approximately $310, $255 and $57, respectively, partially offset by a positive impact of the Japanese yen of approximately $81. Comparable Sales Comparable sales increased 7% during 2012, and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the average amount spent by our members. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results during 2012, while changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 23 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,793 or 14.2% during 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding sales of Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 11%. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in comparable warehouse sales, and the remainder primarily from sales at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,699 or 223 basis points, which resulted from a 24% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,308, or 172 basis points during 2011. The positive impact in 2011 was primarily due to positive impacts in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Mexican peso of approximately $728, $157 and $152, respectively. Comparable Sales Comparable sales, including Mexico for both 2011 and 2010, increased 10% during 2011, and were positively impacted by increases in the average amount spent by our members and in their shopping frequency. Gasoline price inflation and changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted comparable sales results in 2011. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). Membership Fees 2012 2011 2010 Membership fees $ 2,075 $ 1,867 $ 1,691 Membership fees increase 11.1 % 10.4 % 10.3 % Membership fees as a percent of net sales 2.13 % 2.15 % 2.22 % Total cardholders (000s) 67,000 64,000 58,000 2012 vs. 2011 Membership fees increased 11.1% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. Our member renewal rates are consistent with recent years, currently 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86.4% on a worldwide basis. As previously reported, effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110, and the maximum 2% reward associated with Executive Membership increased from $500 to $750 annually. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee revenues during 2012 of approximately $37 and will continue to have an impact in the next several quarters. We expect this increase to positively impact membership fee revenue by approximately $121 in fiscal 2013. 24 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) In discussions of our consolidated operating results, we refer to the impact of changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which are references to the differences between the foreign exchange rates we use to convert the financial results of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. This impact of foreign exchange rate changes is typically calculated as the difference between the current year currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year currency exchange rates. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to August 31. Fiscal 2012 is a 53 week year ending on September 2, 2012, while fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were 52 week periods. Certain percentages presented are calculated using actual results prior to rounding. Unless otherwise noted, references to net income relate to net income attributable to Costco. Highlights for fiscal year 2012 included: Net sales increased 11.5% to $97,062, driven by a 7% increase in comparable sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Net sales were favorably impacted by increases in the price of gasoline, partially offset by the weakening of certain foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; Membership fees increased 11.1% to $2,075, primarily due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fees in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011; Gross margin (net sales less merchandise costs) as a percentage of net sales decreased 14 basis points. This comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $66 lower LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to 2011; Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of net sales improved 17 basis points; Net income in 2012 increased 16.9% to $1,709, or $3.89 per diluted share compared to $1,462, or $3.30 per diluted share in 2011; The Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share; We repurchased 7,272 shares of our common stock, at an average cost of $84.75 per share, totaling approximately $617; and In July, we purchased from our joint venture partner, Controladora Comercial Mexicana, its 50% equity interest in Costco Mexico for $789. 22 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS(1) Net Sales 2012 2011 2010 Net Sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Increases in net sales: U.S. 10.6 % 8.9 % 5.4 % International 13.9 % 31.1 %(2) 23.2 % Total Company 11.5 % 14.2 %(2) 9.1 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales(3): U.S. 7 % 7 % 4 % International 6 % 16 % 19 % Total Company 7 % 10 % 7 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales excluding the impact of gasoline price inflation and foreign currencies(3): U.S. 6 % 5 % 2 % International 8 % 10 % 8 % Total Company 6 % 6 % 4 % (1) Only the 2012 and 2011 data in the accompanying tables includes Mexico. (2) The percentage increase in net sales for 2011 from 2010 was positively impacted by the initial consolidation of Mexico beginning in fiscal 2011. Excluding Mexico, the International and Total Company increases in net sales would have been 17.6% and 11.0%, respectively. (3) For 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 53 weeks. 2012 vs. 2011 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,014 or 11.5% during 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable warehouse sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $801 or 92 basis points, which resulted from an 8% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2012. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $597, or 69 basis points during 2012. The negative impact in 2012 was primarily due to negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won of approximately $310, $255 and $57, respectively, partially offset by a positive impact of the Japanese yen of approximately $81. Comparable Sales Comparable sales increased 7% during 2012, and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the average amount spent by our members. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results during 2012, while changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 23 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,793 or 14.2% during 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding sales of Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 11%. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in comparable warehouse sales, and the remainder primarily from sales at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,699 or 223 basis points, which resulted from a 24% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,308, or 172 basis points during 2011. The positive impact in 2011 was primarily due to positive impacts in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Mexican peso of approximately $728, $157 and $152, respectively. Comparable Sales Comparable sales, including Mexico for both 2011 and 2010, increased 10% during 2011, and were positively impacted by increases in the average amount spent by our members and in their shopping frequency. Gasoline price inflation and changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted comparable sales results in 2011. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). Membership Fees 2012 2011 2010 Membership fees $ 2,075 $ 1,867 $ 1,691 Membership fees increase 11.1 % 10.4 % 10.3 % Membership fees as a percent of net sales 2.13 % 2.15 % 2.22 % Total cardholders (000s) 67,000 64,000 58,000 2012 vs. 2011 Membership fees increased 11.1% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. Our member renewal rates are consistent with recent years, currently 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86.4% on a worldwide basis. As previously reported, effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110, and the maximum 2% reward associated with Executive Membership increased from $500 to $750 annually. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee revenues during 2012 of approximately $37 and will continue to have an impact in the next several quarters. We expect this increase to positively impact membership fee revenue by approximately $121 in fiscal 2013. 24 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS(1) Net Sales 2012 2011 2010 Net Sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Increases in net sales: U.S. 10.6 % 8.9 % 5.4 % International 13.9 % 31.1 %(2) 23.2 % Total Company 11.5 % 14.2 %(2) 9.1 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales(3): U.S. 7 % 7 % 4 % International 6 % 16 % 19 % Total Company 7 % 10 % 7 % Increases in comparable warehouse sales excluding the impact of gasoline price inflation and foreign currencies(3): U.S. 6 % 5 % 2 % International 8 % 10 % 8 % Total Company 6 % 6 % 4 % (1) Only the 2012 and 2011 data in the accompanying tables includes Mexico. (2) The percentage increase in net sales for 2011 from 2010 was positively impacted by the initial consolidation of Mexico beginning in fiscal 2011. Excluding Mexico, the International and Total Company increases in net sales would have been 17.6% and 11.0%, respectively. (3) For 2012, the prior year includes the comparable 53 weeks. 2012 vs. 2011 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,014 or 11.5% during 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable warehouse sales, sales at warehouses opened in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that they have been excluded from comparable warehouse sales, and the benefit of one additional week of sales in 2012. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $801 or 92 basis points, which resulted from an 8% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2012. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net sales by approximately $597, or 69 basis points during 2012. The negative impact in 2012 was primarily due to negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Korean won of approximately $310, $255 and $57, respectively, partially offset by a positive impact of the Japanese yen of approximately $81. Comparable Sales Comparable sales increased 7% during 2012, and were positively impacted by increases in both shopping frequency and the average amount spent by our members. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted comparable sales results during 2012, while changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted comparable sales. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). 23 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,793 or 14.2% during 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding sales of Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 11%. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in comparable warehouse sales, and the remainder primarily from sales at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,699 or 223 basis points, which resulted from a 24% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,308, or 172 basis points during 2011. The positive impact in 2011 was primarily due to positive impacts in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Mexican peso of approximately $728, $157 and $152, respectively. Comparable Sales Comparable sales, including Mexico for both 2011 and 2010, increased 10% during 2011, and were positively impacted by increases in the average amount spent by our members and in their shopping frequency. Gasoline price inflation and changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted comparable sales results in 2011. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). Membership Fees 2012 2011 2010 Membership fees $ 2,075 $ 1,867 $ 1,691 Membership fees increase 11.1 % 10.4 % 10.3 % Membership fees as a percent of net sales 2.13 % 2.15 % 2.22 % Total cardholders (000s) 67,000 64,000 58,000 2012 vs. 2011 Membership fees increased 11.1% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. Our member renewal rates are consistent with recent years, currently 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86.4% on a worldwide basis. As previously reported, effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110, and the maximum 2% reward associated with Executive Membership increased from $500 to $750 annually. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee revenues during 2012 of approximately $37 and will continue to have an impact in the next several quarters. We expect this increase to positively impact membership fee revenue by approximately $121 in fiscal 2013. 24 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) 2011 vs. 2010 Net Sales Net sales increased $10,793 or 14.2% during 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding sales of Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 11%. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in comparable warehouse sales, and the remainder primarily from sales at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Gasoline price inflation positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,699 or 223 basis points, which resulted from a 24% increase in the average sales price per gallon during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net sales by approximately $1,308, or 172 basis points during 2011. The positive impact in 2011 was primarily due to positive impacts in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Mexican peso of approximately $728, $157 and $152, respectively. Comparable Sales Comparable sales, including Mexico for both 2011 and 2010, increased 10% during 2011, and were positively impacted by increases in the average amount spent by our members and in their shopping frequency. Gasoline price inflation and changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted comparable sales results in 2011. The increase in comparable sales includes the negative impact of cannibalization (established warehouses losing sales to our newly opened locations). Membership Fees 2012 2011 2010 Membership fees $ 2,075 $ 1,867 $ 1,691 Membership fees increase 11.1 % 10.4 % 10.3 % Membership fees as a percent of net sales 2.13 % 2.15 % 2.22 % Total cardholders (000s) 67,000 64,000 58,000 2012 vs. 2011 Membership fees increased 11.1% in 2012. The increase was due to new member sign ups at warehouses open for more than one year, an extra week of membership fee revenue in fiscal 2012, the impact of raising our annual membership fees, increased penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program, and additional member sign ups at new warehouses opened since the end of fiscal 2011. Our member renewal rates are consistent with recent years, currently 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and 86.4% on a worldwide basis. As previously reported, effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewal members, we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business add on and Canada Business members to $55. Also, our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fees increased from $100 to $110, and the maximum 2% reward associated with Executive Membership increased from $500 to $750 annually. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. These fee increases had a positive impact on membership fee revenues during 2012 of approximately $37 and will continue to have an impact in the next several quarters. We expect this increase to positively impact membership fee revenue by approximately $121 in fiscal 2013. 24 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted membership fees in 2012 by approximately $10. 2011 vs. 2010 Membership fees increased 10.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding membership fees from Mexico (not consolidated in 2010), the increase would have been 8.3% in 2011. This increase was due to the higher penetration of our higher fee Executive Membership program and the additional membership sign ups at the 20 net new warehouses opened during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted membership fees by approximately $30 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar of $17. Gross Margin 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 97,062 $ 87,048 $ 76,255 Less merchandise costs 86,823 77,739 67,995 Gross margin $ 10,239 $ 9,309 $ 8,260 Gross margin increase 10.0 % 12.7 % 9.4 % Gross margin as a percent of net sales 10.55 % 10.69 % 10.83 % 2012 vs. 2011 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2011. Gross margin for core merchandise categories (food and sundries, hardlines, softlines, and fresh foods) decreased 21 basis points, primarily due to decreases in hardlines and food and sundries resulting from our investment in merchandise pricing. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation on net sales, gross margin for core merchandise categories decreased 13 basis points. The gross margin comparison was positively impacted by eight basis points due to a $21 LIFO inventory charge in 2012 compared to an $87 LIFO charge recorded in 2011. The LIFO charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. Increased penetration of the Executive Membership 2% reward program negatively impacted gross margin by two basis points due to increased spending by Executive Members. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted gross margin by approximately $64 in 2012, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso of approximately $33 and $29, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 14 basis points compared to 2010. Gross margin for core merchandise categories, when expressed as a percent of core merchandise sales rather than total net sales, increased 18 basis points, primarily due to hardlines and food and sundries. However, when the core merchandise gross margin is expressed as a percentage of total net sales, it decreased two basis points from the prior year due primarily to the increased sales penetration of the lower margin gasoline business. Warehouse ancillary and other businesses gross margins decreased by two basis points as a percent of total net sales. The gross margin comparison was also negatively impacted by $87 or 10 basis points, due to a LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2011. The charge resulted from higher costs for our merchandise inventories, primarily food and sundries and gasoline. There was no LIFO inventory charge recorded in 2010. 25 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Excluding the impact of consolidating Mexico, the gross margin comparison as a percent of net sales would have been a decrease of 18 basis points during 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted gross margin by approximately $149 in 2011, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, and Japanese yen of approximately $84, $18, and $18, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2012 2011 2010 SG&A expenses $ 9,518 $ 8,691 $ 7,848 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales 9.81 % 9.98 % 10.29 % 2012 vs. 2011 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 17 basis points compared to 2011. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved nine basis points, primarily due to an eleven basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by contributions to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State and higher stock compensation expense, which had negative impacts of two basis points each. Higher costs related to the modernization of our information systems and related activities, which includes the re platforming of our e commerce sites, also adversely impacted our SG&A percentage. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $45 in 2012, primarily due to the positive impacts of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso by approximately $27 and $18, respectively. 2011 vs. 2010 SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales improved 31 basis points in 2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effect of gasoline price inflation, SG&A expenses improved 11 basis points, primarily due to a 15 basis point improvement in our warehouse operating costs, largely payroll. This improvement was partially offset by a non recurring benefit of $24, or three basis points, recorded in fiscal 2010 related to the refund of a previously recorded Canadian employee tax liability. The consolidation of Mexico, which compared to our other operating segments has lower SG&A expenses as a percent of its own net sales, favorably impacted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales by seven basis points in 2011. Changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted SG&A expenses by approximately $116 in 2011, primarily due to the negative impacts of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso by approximately $65, $16, and $12, respectively. Preopening Expenses 2012 2011 2010 Preopening expenses $ 37 $ 46 $ 26 Warehouse openings, including relocations 17 24 14 Preopening expenses include costs for startup operations related to new warehouses and the expansion of ancillary operations at existing warehouses. Preopening expenses vary due to the number of warehouse openings, the timing of the opening relative to our year end, whether the warehouse is owned or leased, and whether the opening is in an existing, new, or international market. 26 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Interest Expense 2012 2011 2010 Interest Expense $ 95 $ 116 $ 111 Interest expense primarily relates to our $900 of 5.3% and $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2007 (described in further detail under the heading Financing Activities below and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). The outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 5.3% Senior Notes was paid on March 15, 2012, resulting in a decrease in interest expense in 2012. This debt was paid with existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Interest Income and Other, Net 2012 2011 2010 Interest income $ 49 $ 41 $ 23 Foreign currency transaction gains (losses), net 40 9 14 Earnings of affiliates and other, net 14 10 51 Interest income and other, net $ 103 $ 60 $ 88 2012 vs. 2011 The increase in interest income in 2012 compared to 2011 was attributable to higher cash balances and interest rates in our foreign subsidiaries. The changes in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, net in 2012 compared to 2011 were related to the revaluation or settlement of monetary assets and monetary liabilities, primarily our Canadian subsidiarys U.S. dollar denominated payables. See Derivatives and Foreign Currency sections in Item 8, Note 1 of this Report. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in interest income in 2011 compared to 2010 was attributable to increases in our cash and cash equivalents, including short term investments, slightly higher interest rates, and the consolidation of our Mexico operations. See the section titled Derivatives in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. In addition, the decrease in earnings of affiliates and other, net is primarily due to the previously discussed change in the accounting treatment of Mexico (see further discussion in Note 1 included in Item 8 of this Report). Provision for Income Taxes 2012 2011 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 1,000 $ 841 $ 731 Effective tax rate 36.1 % 35.3 % 35.6 % Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by nonrecurring net tax expense of $25 relating primarily to the following items: the adverse impact of an audit of Costco Mexico by the Mexican tax authority; the tax effects of a cash dividend declared by Costco Mexico; and the tax effects of nondeductible expenses for our contribution to an initiative reforming alcohol beverage laws in Washington State. 27 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table itemizes components of our most liquid assets: 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,528 $ 4,009 Short term investments 1,326 1,604 Total $ 4,854 $ 5,613 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from warehouse operations, cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances. Of these balances, approximately $1,161 and $982 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, represented debit and credit card receivables, primarily related to sales within the last week of our fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $3,057 in 2012 compared to $3,198 in 2011, a decrease of $141. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in our net investment in merchandise inventories (change in merchandise inventories less changes in accounts payable) of $314, an $87 decrease in deferred income taxes and a $38 decrease in other current operating assets and liabilities. These items were partially offset by a $225 increase in net income including noncontrolling interests, a $53 increase in depreciation and amortization and a $34 increase in stock based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,236 in 2012 compared to $1,180 in 2011, an increase of $56. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $190 used for property and equipment additions in 2012 as compared to 2011. Additionally, in 2011, cash increased by $165 resulting from the initial consolidation of Costco Mexico. These items were partially offset by net cash provided by purchases, maturities and sales of investments of $255 in 2012, compared to net cash used by these activities of $60 in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,281 in 2012 compared to $1,277 in 2011, an increase of $1,004. This increase was primarily attributable to the $900 repayment of our 5.3% Senior Notes (2012 Notes), and $789 used to purchase the noncontrolling interest in Costco Mexico from our joint venture partner. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of stock options decreased $176 and our Mexico subsidiary made a distribution to our former joint venture partner of $161. These items were partially offset by an increase in bank checks outstanding of $971. In 2012 the increase in bank checks outstanding was due to maintaining lower balances in banks on which our checks are drawn. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $21 in 2012, compared to an increase of $54 in 2011, a decrease of $75. Management believes that our current cash position and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative undistributed earnings of $3,162 and $2,646 at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively, of certain non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries as such earnings are deemed by us to be indefinitely reinvested. We believe that our U.S. current asset position is sufficient to meet our U.S. liquidity requirements and have no current plans to repatriate for use in the U.S. the cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by these subsidiaries. At September 2, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaling $2,039 were held by these non U.S. consolidated subsidiaries. 28 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Dividends In May 2012, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.24 to $0.275 per share. Our quarterly cash dividends paid in 2012 totaled $1.03 per share, as compared to $0.89 per share in 2011. Contractual Obligations As of September 2, 2012, our commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations were as follows: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual obligations 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andthereafter Total Purchase obligations (merchandise)(1) $ 6,682 $ $ $ $ 6,682 Long term debt(2) 66 131 1,266 254 1,717 Operating leases (3) 189 355 320 1,883 2,747 Purchase obligations (property, equipment, services and other)(4) 271 151 6 428 Construction commitments 372 372 Capital lease obligations(2) 14 28 30 328 400 Other(5) 10 14 18 45 87 Total $ 7,604 $ 679 $ 1,640 $ 2,510 $ 12,433 (1) Includes open merchandise purchase orders. (2) Includes contractual interest payments. (3) Operating lease obligations exclude amounts for common area maintenance, taxes, and insurance and have been reduced by $177 to reflect sub lease income. (4) The amounts exclude certain services negotiated at the individual warehouse or regional level that are not significant and generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. (5) Consists of $44 in asset retirement obligations, $41 in deferred compensation obligations and $2 of current unrecognized tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions. The total amount excludes $206 of deferred compensation, $58 of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits and $20 of other obligations due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Expansion Plans Our primary requirement for capital is the financing of land, buildings, and equipment costs for new and remodeled warehouses. To a lesser extent, capital is required for initial warehouse operations and working capital. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review, it is our current intention to spend approximately $1,800 to $2,000 during fiscal 2013 for real estate, construction, remodeling, equipment for warehouses and related operations, and the modernization of our information systems and related activities. These expenditures are expected to be financed with a combination of cash provided from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. We plan to open 27 to 30 net new warehouses in 2013. We opened 16 net new warehouses in 2012, including the reopening of our Tamasakai, Japan warehouse (damaged in the March 2011 Japan earthquake) and the relocation of our Ancaster, Ontario warehouse to a larger and better located facility. We spent a total of $1,480 on capital expenditures in 2012. 29 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Bank Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Programs As of September 2, 2012, we had total borrowing capacity within our bank credit facilities of $438, of which $370 was maintained by our international operations. Of the $370 maintained by our international operations, $224 is guaranteed by the Company. We maintain bank credit facilities for working capital and general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding short term borrowings under any of the bank credit facilities at the end of 2012 and 2011. The Company has letter of credit facilities, for commercial and stand by letters of credit, totaling $160. The outstanding commitments under these facilities at the end of 2012 totaled $125, including $101 million in stand by letters of credit with expiration dates within one year. All of the bank credit facilities have various expiration dates, all within one year, and generally, we intend to renew these facilities prior to their expiration. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our bank credit facilities is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. Financing Activities In the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, our Japanese subsidiary issued 1.18% yen denominated promissory notes through a private placement. These notes were issued in two series, with the first funding in October 2011 and the second funding in December 2011. For both series, interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2018. In April 2010, our Japanese subsidiary paid the outstanding principal and interest balances totaling $44 related to the 0.92% promissory notes due April 2010, originally issued in April 2003. In June 2008, our Japanese subsidiary entered into a ten year term loan in the amount of $38, with a variable rate of interest of yen TIBOR (6 month) plus a 0.35% margin (0.78% and 0.79% at the end of 2012 and 2011, respectively) on the outstanding balance. Interest is payable semi annually and principal is due in June 2018. In October 2007, our Japanese subsidiary issued promissory notes through a private placement in the amount of $83, bearing interest at 2.695%. Interest is payable semi annually, and principal is due in October 2017. In February 2007, we issued $900 of 5.3% Senior Notes that were due March 15, 2012 (2012 Notes) at a discount of $2 and issued $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes due March 15, 2017 at a discount of $6 (together the 2007 Senior Notes). Interest on the 2007 Senior Notes is payable semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The discount and issuance costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes are being amortized to interest expense over the terms of those notes. At our option, we may redeem the 2007 Senior Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the 2007 Senior Notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the 2007 Senior Notes at a price of 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase, upon certain events as defined by the terms of the 2007 Senior Notes. On March 15, 2012, we paid the outstanding principal balance and associated interest on the 2012 Notes with our existing sources of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. In August 1997, we sold $900 principal amount at maturity 3.5% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes (Zero Coupon Notes) due in August 2017. The Zero Coupon Notes were priced with a yield to maturity of 3.5%, resulting in gross proceeds of $450. The remaining Zero Coupon Notes outstanding are convertible into a maximum of 832,000 shares of Costco Common Stock at an initial 30 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) conversion price of $22.71. At our option, we may redeem the Zero Coupon Notes (at the discounted issue price plus accrued interest to date of redemption) any time after August 2002. As of September 2, 2012, $864 in principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes had been converted by note holders into shares of Costco Common Stock. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition or consolidated financial statements. Stock Repurchase Programs In April 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program in the amount of $4,000, expiring in April 2015, bringing total authorizations by our Board of Directors since inception of the program in 2001 to $10,800. The authorization in April 2011 revoked previously authorized but unused amounts totaling $792. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 7,272,000 and 8,939,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $84.75 and $71.74, totaling approximately $617 and $641, respectively. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our approved plan was $3,089 at the end of 2012. Purchases are made from time to time, as conditions warrant, in the open market or in block purchases and pursuant to plans under SEC Rule 10b5 1. Repurchased shares are retired, in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and judgments. We continue to review our accounting policies and evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, investments, merchandise inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, insurance/self insurance liabilities, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. For further information on key accounting policies, see discussion in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Revenue Recognition We generally recognize sales, which include shipping fees where applicable, net of estimated returns, at the time the member takes possession of merchandise or receives services. When we collect payment from customers prior to the transfer of ownership of merchandise or the performance of services, the amount received is generally recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets until the sale or service is completed. We provide for estimated sales returns based on historical trends in merchandise returns, net of the estimated net realizable value of merchandise inventories to be returned and any estimated disposition costs. Amounts collected from members that under common trade practices are referred to as sales taxes are recorded on a net basis. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of merchandise sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor, subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, influence product or service specifications, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue and related shipping fees are 31 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) recorded on a gross basis. If we are not the primary obligor and do not possess other indicators of gross reporting as noted above, we record the net amounts as commissions earned, which is reflected in net sales. Membership fee revenue represents annual membership fees paid by our members. We account for membership fee revenue, net of estimated refunds, on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one year membership period. Our Executive members qualify for a 2% reward (which can be redeemed only at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. We account for this 2% reward as a reduction in sales. The sales reduction and corresponding liability are computed after giving effect to the estimated impact of non redemptions based on historical data. Investments Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. We employ a methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, or issuer conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, as determined primarily by the retail inventory method, and are stated using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories for all foreign operations are primarily valued by the retail inventory method and are stated using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe the LIFO method more fairly presents the results of operations by more closely matching current costs with current revenues. We record an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the estimated effect of inflation or deflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end. We provide for estimated inventory losses (shrink) between physical inventory counts as a percentage of net sales. The provision is adjusted periodically to reflect results of the actual physical inventory counts, which generally occur in the second and fourth quarters of the year. Inventory cost, where appropriate, is reduced by estimates of vendor rebates when earned or as we progress toward earning those rebates, provided they are probable and reasonably estimable. Other consideration received from vendors is generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs upon completion of contractual milestones, terms of agreement, or other systematic and rational approaches. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We periodically evaluate our long lived assets for indicators of impairment, such as a decision to relocate or close a warehouse facility. Our judgments are based on existing market and operational conditions. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment factors exist, requiring a downward adjustment of these assets to their then current fair market value. 32 Table of Contents Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollars in millions, except per share, membership fee data, and warehouse number data) (Continued) Insurance/Self Insurance Liabilities We use a combination of insurance and self insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for potential liabilities for workers compensation, general liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, vehicle liability, and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that we retain are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the positions will withstand challenge from tax authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the consolidated financial statements as appropriate. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect these recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity in future periods. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our exposure to financial market risk results from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment holdings that are diversified among money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured corporate bonds, and corporate notes and bonds with effective maturities of generally three months to five years at the date of purchase. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. The majority of our short term investments are in fixed interest rate securities. These securities are subject to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations. Our Board of Directors have approved a policy that limits investments in the U.S. to direct U.S. government and government agency obligations, repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government and government agency obligations, and U.S. government and government agency money market funds. The investment policies of our subsidiaries are consistent with our primary objective to preserve principal and secondarily to generate yields. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary invests in U.S. government and government agency obligations, corporate notes and bonds, and asset and mortgage 33 Table of Contents Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) backed securities with a minimum overall portfolio average credit rating of AA. All of our foreign subsidiaries investments are primarily in money market funds, investment grade securities, bankers acceptances, bank certificates of deposit and term deposits, all denominated in their local currencies. Additionally, our Canadian subsidiary may invest a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar investment grade securities and bank term deposits to meet current U.S. dollar obligations. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact an assumed 100 basis point change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio. At the end of 2012 and 2011, the incremental change in the fair market value was immaterial. For those investments that are classified as available for sale, the unrealized gains or losses related to fluctuations in market volatility and interest rates are reflected within stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. As of the end of 2012, the majority of our fixed rate long term debt included $1,100 of 5.5% Senior Notes carried at $1,097. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of the fixed rate debt and may affect the interest expense related to the variable rate debt. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for more information on our long term debt. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our foreign subsidiaries conduct certain transactions in their non functional currencies, which exposes us to fluctuations in exchange rates. We manage these fluctuations, in part, through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, seeking to economically hedge the impact of fluctuations of foreign exchange on known future expenditures denominated in a non functional foreign currency. The contracts are intended primarily to economically hedge exposure to U.S. dollar merchandise inventory expenditures made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar. Currently, these contracts do not qualify for derivative hedge accounting. We seek to mitigate risk with the use of these contracts and do not intend to engage in speculative transactions. These contracts do not contain any credit risk related contingent features. We seek to manage counterparty risk associated with these contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that this practice effectively mitigates counterparty risk. These contracts are limited to less than one year in duration. See Note 1 and Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on the fair value of open, unsettled forward foreign exchange contracts at the end of 2012 and 2011. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the functional currency compared to the non functional currency exchange rates at September 2, 2012 and August 28, 2011, would have decreased the fair value of the contracts by $28 and $25, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to fluctuations in prices for energy that we consume, particularly electricity and natural gas, which we seek to partially mitigate through the use of fixed price contracts for certain of our warehouses and other facilities, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. We also enter into variable priced contracts for some purchases of natural gas, in addition to fuel for our gas stations, on an index basis. These contracts meet the characteristics of derivative instruments, but generally qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales exception under authoritative guidance and, thus, require no mark to market adjustment. 34 Table of Contents 
 
