ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Information with respect to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is incorporated herein by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis in Exhibit 13, the Financial Section of the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp. Information included in Managements Discussion & Analysis in Exhibit 13, the Financial Section of the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp. describing the segments relating to projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, fluid management, pulp and paper and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Companys entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Companys significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials and supplies; insurance and pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Companys employees; the Companys ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvements. Any forward looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any forward looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document. ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK At various times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and prices of strategic raw materials. Fluctuations in the market values of such derivative instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the underlying economic exposures that the instruments are intended to hedge. Because derivative instruments are used solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, they do not represent incremental risk to the Company. For further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer to the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Financing Arrangements notes in Exhibit 13, the Financial Section of the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp. Interest Rate Risk As discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Financing Arrangements notes in Exhibit 13, the Company was committed to an interest rate swap on floating debt at March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002. If market rates had averaged 10 percent higher than actual levels in either fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002, the effect on the Companys interest expense and net income, after considering the effects of the interest rate swap contracts and interest rate cap, would not have been material. Foreign Currency Risk The majority of the Companys revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities is transacted in U.S. dollars; however, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies for transactions denominated in other currencies. As discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note, the Company had several foreign currency hedges in place at March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002 to reduce such exposure. The potential loss in fair value on such financial instruments from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would not have been material to the financial position of the Company as of the end of fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002. 19 Material Cost Risk As discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note, the Company had entered into agreements to hedge the purchase price of strategic raw materials at March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002. If market rates had averaged 10 percent higher than actual levels in either fiscal 2003 or 2002, the effect on the Companys cost of sales and net earnings, after considering the effects of the hedge agreements, would not have been material. 
 
