ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Business overview Fiscal 2004 was another challenging, yet successful, year for Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC" or "the Company"). During the past two years, the Company has faced significant challenges in its core Aerospace and Power Generation markets, where weak economic conditions have continued to reduce demand for products used in commercial aircraft and industrial gas turbines. PCC has responded to these declining market conditions by continuing to aggressively cut costs and improve operating performance. This focus on operational excellence has led to substantial share gains in PCCs core markets, and is generating strong operating margins despite declining leverage from the lower sales volume. In addition, the Company continues to consider acquisition and divestiture strategies designed to strengthen and build upon PCCs core businesses, technologies and customer relationships. In December 2003, PCC acquired SPS Technologies, Inc. ("SPS"), a leading world wide supplier of highly engineered fasteners and other metal products sold principally to the aerospace and automotive markets. This acquisition is an excellent fit with PCC, and it provides abundant opportunities for realization of value added synergies and sales growth. Also in fiscal 2004, PCC continued to divest non core businesses that did not fit the Companys strategy for long term profitable growth, including three businesses that were part of the SPS organization. Overall, the Company is well positioned to achieve strong operating performance in fiscal 2005, and to leverage earnings as economic conditions in the Aerospace and Power Generation markets improve. Total sales for fiscal 2004 were $2,174.7 million, an increase of $98.1 million, or 5 percent from fiscal 2003 sales of $2,076.6 million. The addition of the SPS businesses for 17 weeks of the year contributed $231.0 million to the current year sales. Excluding SPS, the Company experienced a $132.9 million, or 6% decline in sales, principally affecting the Investment Cast Products and Forged Products segments due to weak demand from the Aerospace and Power Generation markets. Total Aerospace sales increased 6% compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to the acquisition of SPS. As a percent of total sales, fiscal 2004 Aerospace sales remained flat at 54% compared to fiscal 2003. Power Generation sales dropped 25 percent from fiscal 2003 levels, and declined from 23 percent of total sales in fiscal 2003 to 16 percent of total sales in fiscal 2004. Sales to the Fluid Management market increased 9 percent from fiscal 2003, and increased from 12 percent of total sales in fiscal 2003 to 13 percent of total sales in fiscal 2004. Sales to the General Industrial and Other markets grew by 20 percent, and the Automotive market grew by over 300%, primarily due to the acquisition of SPS. Cost of goods sold was $1,679.1 million, or 77 percent of sales, in fiscal 2004 as compared to $1,586.7 million, or 76 percent of sales, in fiscal 2003. The slight increase in the percentage reflects the impact of declining leverage from lower sales volume, higher depreciation and pension expenses, increased raw material costs and higher costs associated with SPS, partially offset by strong performance improvements throughout the Company, most significantly within the Industrial Products segments. Selling and administrative expenses were $204.0 million, or 9 percent of sales, in fiscal 2004 compared to $180.1 million, or 9 percent of sales, in fiscal 2003. The flat year over year percentage was due to significant cost reductions throughout the Company, offset by the negative impact of the lower sales volume and the addition of SPS, which has a higher percentage of selling and administrative expenses compared to PCCs base businesses. Net income from continuing operations for fiscal 2004 was $135.5 million, or $2.35 per share (diluted), which included restructuring and asset impairment charges in the second and fourth quarters totaling $0.16 per share and other expense associated with financing the SPS acquisition of $0.12 per share. By comparison, net income from continuing operations for fiscal 2003 was $161.1 million, or $3.04 per share (diluted), which included restructuring charges in the second and fourth quarters totaling $0.28 per share, offset by benefits from insurance settlements in the second quarter of $0.17 per share and favorable tax settlements in the fourth quarter of $0.11 per share. Fiscal 2004 net income after discontinued operations was $117.9 million, or $2.05 per share (diluted), compared with $124.3 million, or $2.35 per share (diluted) in fiscal 2003. Business acquisitions On December 9, 2003, PCC acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of common stock of SPS Technologies, Inc. The results of SPS operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements since that date. The acquisition of SPS is expected to strengthen and build upon the Companys core businesses, technologies and customer relationships. In addition, SPS complementary manufacturing processes provide the Company with opportunities to enhance efficiencies and reduce costs throughout SPS, resulting in anticipated improvements in operating margins. The aggregate purchase price was $728.8 million, which included $294.2 million of cash, PCC common stock valued at $425.1 million and $9.5 million of cash paid for transaction fees. In addition, SPS paid $39.3 million for change of control payments and transaction fees as of the close of the transaction. The value of the 9.3 million shares of PCC common stock issued in connection with the acquisition was determined based on the quoted market price of PCCs common stock on and around the date of the close of the transaction. SPS is a supplier of fasteners and other metal products to the aerospace, automotive, and general industrial markets. SPS former Specialty Materials and Alloys group operates as part of the Investment Cast Products segment. A new segment, Fastener Products, comprises most of SPS former Aerospace Fasteners and Engineered Fasteners groups. SPS former tool group operates as part of the Industrial Products segment. In addition, three former SPS businessesMagnetics, Mohawk, and Dacarwere classified as held for sale in the third quarter, and their results are included in discontinued operations. Discontinued operations In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company incurred asset impairment and disposal charges associated with its decision to sell Newmans, a valve distribution company within the Fluid Management Products segment. It was determined that Newmans distribution business did not fit with PCCs manufacturing focused operations and was not performing to the Companys expectations. The Newmans business was sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, three businesses acquired in the SPS transactionMagnetics, Mohawk, and Dacarwere classified as held for sale and their results were included in 3 PrecisionCastparts Corp. & Subsidiaries discontinued operations. They were classified as discontinued operations because they were deemed to be non core to the Company and do not meet PCCs long term strategy. PCC is currently marketing the operations for sale. In fiscal 2003, PCC incurred charges associated with the closure or sale of certain businesses within its Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments. The PCC Olofsson and Eldorado machine businesses were closed and the Eldorado gundrill tooling business was sold. In addition, the Company sold its controlling interest in Design Technologies International ("DTI") and certain intangible assets of Olofsson to minority shareholders of DTI. The closure or sale of these operations was in response to a steady and continual decline in the machine tool industry over the past several years. In addition, PCC closed STW Composites ("STW") as it was deemed to be a non core business to PCC. PCC also entered into agreements to sell Barber Industries and Fastener Engineers & Lewis Machine ("FELM") and began actively marketing PCC Superior Fabrication for sale in the fourth quarter. Barber Industries and FELM were both sold during the first quarter and PCC Superior Fabrication was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. These businesses did not fit with the Companys long term strategy for profitable growth. Olofsson, Eldorado, DTI, STW, Superior Fabrication, FELM, Barber and Newmans each meet the criteria as a component of an entity under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Accordingly, any operating results of these businesses are presented in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations, net of income tax, and all prior periods have been reclassified. In addition, the Company recorded disposal expenses in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 totaling $19.2 million and $42.4 million, respectively, related to the write down of remaining inventory and property, plant and equipment to fair value less cost to sell, the write down of accounts receivable and other current assets to net realizable value, and incremental costs directly related to the closure or sale of the businesses, such as pension, severance and lease termination costs. Restructuring, asset impairment and other non recurring charges The following table provides significant components of amounts recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income related to the Companys restructuring and asset impairment charges: Fiscal 2004 2003 2002 Provision for restructuring: Severance $ 9.7 $ 20.2 $ 11.1 Other 2.0 1.4 4.7 Impairment of long lived assets 2.2 90.2 $ 13.9 $ 21.6 $ 106.0 The following table provides a rollforward of amounts included in accrued liabilities for restructuring reserves: Fiscal 2004 2003 2002 Restructuring reserve at beginning of period $ 19.7 $ 14.3 $ 5.8 Provision continuing operations 11.7 21.6 15.8 Provision discontinued operations 0.5 Utilization (25.2 ) (16.2 ) (7.8 ) Restructuring reserve at end of period $ 6.2 $ 19.7 $ 14.3 During fiscal 2004, PCC recorded provisions for restructuring and impairment of long lived assets totaling $13.9 million. The tax effected impact of these charges was $9.2 million, or $0.16 per share (diluted). These charges are summarized below: The Company recorded $8.5 million of restructuring charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 primarily for severance associated with headcount reductions at PCCs investment castings operations in the United Kingdom and the Companys forging operations in the United Kingdom and Houston, Texas. The reductions were in response to reduced demand for commercial aerospace and industrial gas turbine products. The restructuring plans provided for termination of approximately 435 employees. The tax effected impact of these charges totaled $5.7 million, or $0.10 per share (diluted). The Company recorded $3.2 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to provide for severance associated with the consolidation of the Reed Rico thread rolling facility in Holden, Massachusetts, into the newly acquired SPS thread rolling operations in Shannon, Ireland, further consolidation of the European valve production operations within the Fluid Management Products segment and severance associated with headcount reductions at certain domestic operations within the Fluid Management Products segment. The restructuring plans called for termination of approximately 250 employees through the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The tax effected impact of these charges totaled $2.1 million, or $0.04 per share (diluted). In conjunction with the consolidation of the Reed Rico and SPS thread rolling operations, redundant equipment at Reed Rico was written down to net realizable value, resulting in an impairment charge of $2.2 million. The tax effected impact of these charges totaled $1.4 million, or $0.02 per share (diluted). Taking into consideration the current uncertainties in the markets served by the Company, PCC continuously assesses its cost structure to ensure that operations are properly sized for prevailing market conditions. Based on the Companys most recent assessment, there are no current plans to restructure operations in fiscal 2005. Other expense (income) Other expense of $11.2 million was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 to reflect the write off of unamortized bank fees ($2.8 million) from early termination of bank credit facilities and the termination of an interest rate swap ($8.4 million) associated with debt refinancing, both in connection with the SPS acquisition. Outlook The Company expects that Aerospace sales will improve slightly in fiscal 2005 principally due to increased deliveries of commercial aircraft and higher sales of aftermarket spares. The Power 4 PrecisionCastparts Corp. & Subsidiaries Generation market will continue to decline in fiscal 2005 due to lower sales of industrial gas turbine components in North America, partially offset by the impact of higher demand in Asia, market share gains, requirements for IGT spares, and higher sales of seamless pipe. Other markets served by the Company are expected to be relatively flat, or slightly improved from fiscal 2004. Overall sales are expected to grow by approximately 30 percent from fiscal 2004, primarily due to a full year of results from the SPS acquisition. Excluding the sales contributed by SPS, sales will be up slightly year over year. Operating margins in the Companys base businesses are expected to have modest improvement over fiscal 2004 levels due to the benefit of restructuring activities taken during the past year, coupled with continued cost take outs throughout the Company and the slightly higher sales levels. Operating margins at SPS are also expected to improve due to continued realization of synergies. Financial results by segment PCC has organized the Companys business segments along its five major product lines and reports financial results in the following five segments: Investment Cast Products, Forged Products, Fastener Products, Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products. Operating income amounts discussed below exclude restructuring and asset impairment charges. To facilitate comparisons with fiscal 2003, the following segment operating income amounts reported for fiscal 2002 have been adjusted to account for the impact of SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Fiscal 2002 As Reported Goodwill Amortization Adjusted Segment operating income Investment Cast Products $ 248.5 $ 3.3 $ 251.8 Forged Products 116.7 12.3 129.0 Fluid Management Products 17.0 7.9 24.9 Industrial Products 2.1 4.0 6.1 Corporate expense (32.5 ) (32.5 ) Operating income $ 351.8 $ 27.5 $ 379.3 Investment Cast Products The Investment Cast Products segment includes PCC Structurals, PCC Airfoils, and the newly acquired SPS Specialty Materials and Alloys Group ("SMAG"). These businesses manufacture investment castings, or provide materials and alloys, for aircraft engines, industrial gas turbine (IGT) engines, airframes, armaments, medical prostheses and other industrial applications. Fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 Investment Cast Products reported fiscal 2004 sales of $1,042.8 million and operating income of $190.4 million, or 18 percent of sales. Fiscal 2004 sales decreased 3 percent from the prior years $1,071.3 million, and operating income decreased by 10 percent over the prior years $210.7 million, or 20 percent of sales. The addition of SPS SMAG businesses in December 2003 contributed $40.4 million of sales and $6.4 million of operating income, or 16 percent of sales, to fiscal 2004 results. The overall sales decline compared to fiscal 2003 was due to continued weakness in both the Aerospace and Power Generation markets, combined with the impact of price reductions. Despite the sales decline and higher raw material costs compared to fiscal 2003, the Investment Cast Products segment was able to achieve solid operating margins due to continued aggressive cost takeout throughout its operations and improvements in manufacturing performance. The Investment Cast Products segment anticipates higher sales associated with the Aerospace market, partially offset by continued declines in the Power Generation market in fiscal 2005. Operating margins are expected to improve in fiscal 2005 as a result of leverage from the higher sales volume and continued improvements in operating efficiency. Fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 Investment Cast Products reported fiscal 2003 sales of $1,071.3 million and operating income of $210.7 million, or 20 percent of sales. Fiscal 2003 sales decreased 20 percent from the prior years $1,332.0 million, and operating income decreased by 16 percent over the prior years $251.8 million, or 19 percent of sales. The sales decline was due to weakness in both the Aerospace and Power Generation markets, combined with the impact of price reductions. Despite the significant decline, the Investment Cast Products segment was able to improve operating margins year over year due to cost takeouts throughout its operations. Forged Products The Forged Products segment consists of the forging operations of Wyman Gordon. Forged Products sales to the Aerospace and Power Generation markets are derived primarily from the same large engine customers served by the Investment Cast Products segment, with additional aerospace sales going to manufacturers of landing gear and other airframe components. The Forged Products segment also produces seamless pipe and other products for the oil and gas industry. Fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 Forged Products reported sales of $502.4 million for fiscal 2004, a decrease of $64.5 million, with operating income of $64.7 million, or 13 percent of sales, a decrease of $16.8 million from the fiscal 2003 level of $81.5 million, or 14 percent of sales. The sales decline was due to reduced demand for commercial aerospace products as well as products for the Power Generation market, partially offset by increased demand for military aerospace products. Operating margins within this segment are significantly impacted by the deleveraging effect of the sales decline due to the capital intensive nature of the forging business. Higher raw material costs, which represents a significant percentage of overall costs, as well as price concessions, also reduced operating margins. Cost reductions and benefits from settlement of a supply agreement between Wyman Gordon and Timet helped to partially offset the impact of these items. Sales in fiscal 2005 within this segment are expected to benefit from the recovering Aerospace market and anticipated growth in extruded pipe sales, partially offset by continued weakness in the industrial gas turbine market. Operating income will benefit from the slightly higher sales and continued improvements in operating efficiency. Fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 Forged Products reported sales of $566.9 million for fiscal 2003, a decrease of $131.0 million, with operating income of $81.5 million, or 14 percent of sales, a decrease of $47.5 million from the fiscal 2002 level of $129.0 million, or 18 percent of sales. The sales decline was due to reduced demand for commercial 5 PrecisionCastparts Corp. & Subsidiaries aerospace products as well as products for the Power Generation market, partially offset by military aerospace sales. The operating margins were impacted by the deleveraging effect of the sales decline in this capital intensive segment. Cost reductions, market share gains and improved value stream management have helped to mitigate the impact of the lower sales volume. Fastener Products The Fastener Products segment includes most of SPS former Aerospace Fasteners and Engineered Fasteners groups that were acquired in December 2003. The businesses that comprise this segment produce fasteners, fastener systems and components for critical applications in the aerospace, automotive and industrial machinery markets. Fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 The Fastener Products segment recorded sales of $181.3 million of sales and operating income of $13.5 million, or 7 percent of sales, for the year, which included approximately 17 weeks of activity since PCC acquired SPS on December 9, 2003. Since its acquisition, the Fastener Products segment has rapidly achieved cost reductions and synergies, while also increasing market share in airframe and aircraft engine sectors and opening up share gain opportunities with major automotive customers. The Fastener Products segment will continue to benefit from additional opportunities for cost reductions and synergies in fiscal 2005 and beyond. Fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 The Fastener Products segment was not part of the Company in fiscal 2003 or 2002. Fluid Management Products The Fluid Management Products segment includes all of the businesses of PCC Flow Technologies. The businesses that comprise this segment manufacture an extensive range of fluid management products under various brand names, which include PACO, Johnston and Crown pumps for water and wastewater treatment, new construction, energy, and other applications; E/One grinder pumps for low pressure sewer systems; and General Valve, TBV, TECHNO, PCC Ball Valves, Sterom, AOP, Baronshire, Valtaco, Reiss, Technova, Wouter Witzel, CW and ConVey valves for oil and gas, fuel distribution, food processing, severe services and other applications. Fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2004 sales for Fluid Management Products were $308.7 million, as compared to $310.9 million in fiscal 2003, a decrease of 1 percent. The segments operating income decreased from $32.5 million, or 10 percent of sales, in fiscal 2003 to $31.0 million, or 10 percent of sales, in fiscal 2004. The slight decline in sales was due to lower sales in the Power Generation market and oil and gas sectors, partially offset by higher sales in the municipal and chemical processing sectors. Operating margins were flat despite the lower sales volume as a result of lower costs from offshore production and additional purchasing leverage, coupled with an improved cost structure resulting from restructuring efforts completed during fiscal 2003 and 2004. Overall, the Fluid Management Products segment is expected to benefit from an increased backlog and modest revenue growth in fiscal 2005. Operating margins are expected to improve slightly as the year progresses due to the higher volume and the impact of low cost manufacturing facilities in China and Romania. With an improved cost structure, the segment is positioned to penetrate new and existing markets. Fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 Fiscal 2003 sales for Fluid Management Products were $310.9 million, as compared to $298.7 million in fiscal 2002, an increase of 4 percent. The segments operating income increased from $16.1 million, or 5 percent of sales, in fiscal 2002 to $32.5 million, or 10 percent of sales, in fiscal 2003. The sales improvement was due to higher sales in the oil and gas and municipal sectors, partially offset by lower sales in the power generation and chemical sectors. Operating margins improved due to the higher sales volume, coupled with increased offshore production, additional purchasing leverage and manufacturing efficiencies. Industrial Products The Industrial Products segment includes J&L Fiber Services, Advanced Forming Technology (AFT) and the Precision Tool Group. J&L Fiber Services produces refiner plates and screen cylinders for use in the pulp and paper industry and rebuilds refiner equipment that is used in the pulping process. AFT manufactures metal injection molded, metal matrix composite, and ThixoFormed components for numerous industrial applications. The PCC Precision Tool Group, which consists of Reed Rico and the SPS tool group, manufactures a broad range of cold forming header and threader tools and dies. Fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 The Industrial Products segments sales increased by 9 percent, from $127.5 million in fiscal 2003 to $139.5 million in fiscal 2004, and its operating income increased from $13.0 million, or 10 percent of sales, to $18.9 million, or 14 percent of sales. The increase in sales was due to the addition of SPS tool group, which contributed $9.4 million of sales, as well as improved market conditions in the automotive sector and additional market penetration by the base businesses. Operating margins benefited from the higher volume, coupled with new product introductions, increased productivity and successful ramp up of production at low cost manufacturing facilities in Hungary and India, partially offset by the impact of adding SPS businesses, which have lower margins. In fiscal 2005, the Industrial Products segment should continue to benefit from the consolidation of Reed Rico and the SPS tooling businesses, which will increase PCCs worldwide share of the fastener tooling market. Operating margins are expected to increase as a result of improved cost structures and leverage from higher volume. Fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 The Industrial Products segments sales increased by 7 percent, from $119.2 million in fiscal 2002 to $127.5 million in fiscal 2003, and its operating income increased from $6.1 million, or 5 percent of sales, to $13.0 million, or 10 percent of sales. The increase in sales was due to improved market conditions in the general industrial market and increased market share in the electronics and pulp and paper sectors. Operating margins benefited from the higher volume, coupled with increased productivity and successful start up of new low cost manufacturing facilities in Hungary and India. 6 PrecisionCastparts Corp. & Subsidiaries  Interest and taxes Net interest expense in fiscal 2004 was $54.1 million, as compared with $56.4 million in fiscal 2003. The lower interest expense resulted from lower debt levels and lower effective borrowing rates during fiscal 2004. The effective tax rate for the year was 36 percent, compared with 34 percent in the prior year. The fiscal 2003 rate included $5.7 million of favorable tax settlements, decreasing the effective tax rate by 3 percentage points. The fiscal 2004 rate benefited from the impact of non recurring charges related to financing the SPS acquisition, as well as the favorable resolution of certain tax contingencies. Liquidity and capital resources Total assets of $3,756.2 million at March 28, 2004, represented a $1,289.0 million increase from the $2,467.2 million balance at March 30, 2003, primarily due to the acquisition of SPS, which added $1,227.4 million of assets. Total capitalization at March 28, 2004, was $2,792.4 million, consisting of $1,077.5 million of debt and $1,714.6 million of equity. The debt to capital ratio decreased from 39.5% at the end of fiscal 2003 to 38.6% at March 28, 2004. Cash requirements for the year included $280.9 million for the acquisition of SPS, $95.1 million of pension contributions ($79.0 million were voluntary), $65.5 million for capital expenditures, $25.5 million for increased working capital, $8.4 million of swap termination fees and $11.2 million of loan fees, and $6.4 million for dividends. These requirements were funded by $135.5 million of net income from continuing operations adjusted for $88.2 million of depreciation and amortization, $37.6 million of deferred income taxes and $2.2 million of asset impairment charges, $59.5 million from the sale of common stock through ESPP purchases and stock option exercises, $25.1 million of proceeds from the sale of Barber, FELM, Newmans and PCC Superior Fabrication, $9.9 million from discontinued operations and $15.7 million from other activities. The shortfall was funded by $170.9 million of net borrowings, which resulted in an ending cash balance at March 28, 2004 of $80.3 million, up $51.6 million from the fiscal 2003 ending balance. Capital spending of $65.5 million in fiscal 2004 principally provided for maintenance, expansion and cost reduction projects. Fiscal 2005s capital spending, which is expected to be higher than spending in fiscal 2004, principally provides for additional capital expenditures associated with SPS, coupled with projects to reduce costs, maintain production and provide for improved safety throughout the company. Management believes that the Company can fund requirements for working capital, capital spending, cash dividends, scheduled repayment of debt and potential acquisitions from cash generated from operations, borrowing from existing or new bank credit facilities, issuance of public or privately placed debt securities, or the issuance of equity instruments. Contractual obligations and commercial commitments The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements and lease agreements. The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations of PCC as of March 28, 2004 (in millions): Contractual Cash Obligations Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Long term debt $ 1,061.5 $ 238.5 $ 98.6 $ 98.5 $ 248.8 $ 79.0 $ 298.1 Operating leases 114.0 22.7 19.9 15.7 12.2 9.8 33.7 $ 1,175.5 $ 261.2 $ 118.5 $ 114.2 $ 261.0 $ 88.8 $ 331.8 Critical accounting policies The Company has identified the policies below as critical to PCCs business operations and the understanding of its results of operations. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on PCCs business operations are discussed throughout the Managements Discussion and Analysis where such policies affect reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other significant accounting policies, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report. Note that the preparation of this Annual Report requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue when the earnings process is complete. This generally occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with the contract or purchase order, ownership and risk of loss have passed to the customer, collectibility is reasonably assured, and pricing is fixed and determinable. In instances where title does not pass to the customer upon shipment, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery or customer acceptance, depending on terms of the sales agreement. Service sales, representing aftermarket repair and maintenance and engineering activities, are recognized as services are performed. Accounts receivable reserve The Company evaluates the collectibility of its accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where PCC is aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings), a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due is recorded to reduce the receivable to the amount the Company reasonably expects will be collected. In addition, the Company records reserves for bad debts based on estimates developed by using standard quantitative measures based on historical write offs and current economic conditions. The establishment of reserves requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding the potential for losses on receivable balances. Although the Company considers these balances adequate and proper, changes in economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates could have a material effect on the required reserve balances. 7 Precision Castparts Corp. & Subsidiaries Valuation of inventories All inventories are stated at the lower of the cost to purchase or manufacture the inventory or the current estimated market value of the inventory. Cost for work in process and metal inventories at a significant number of the Companys operations is determined on a last in, first out ("LIFO") basis. The average inventory cost method is utilized for most other inventories. The Company regularly reviews inventory quantities on hand and records a provision for excess or obsolete inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Therefore, although management makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of forecast demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant impact on the value of PCCs inventories and reported operating results. Goodwill and acquired intangibles From time to time, the Company acquires businesses in purchase transactions that typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the consolidated financial statements. Recently issued accounting standards In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FIN No. 46R, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities. FIN No. 46R requires identification of the Companys participation in variable interest entities ("VIE"), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a standalone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest. For entities identified as VIE, FIN No. 46R sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. FIN No. 46R also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required. This interpretation applies immediately to VIE created or in which a company obtains an interest after January 31, 2003. For interests in VIE acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN No. 46R applies in the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of FIN No. 46R did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On April 30, 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies the guidance on (1) derivative instruments (including derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) and (2) hedging activities that fall within the scope of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 149 also amends certain other existing pronouncements, which will result in more consistent reporting of contracts that are derivatives in their entirety or that contain embedded derivatives that warrant separate accounting. SFAS No. 149 is effective (1) for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, with certain exceptions, and (2) for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 149 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On May 15, 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity." SFAS No. 150 improves the accounting for certain financial instruments that, under previous guidance, issuers could account for as equity or "mezzanine" equity, by now requiring those instruments to be classified as liabilities in the statement of financial position. SFAS No. 150 requires disclosure regarding the terms of those instruments and settlement alternatives. SFAS No. 150 affects an entitys classification of the following freestanding instruments: a) mandatorily redeemable instruments, b) financial instruments to repurchase an entitys own equity instruments, c) financial instruments embodying obligations that the issuer must or could choose to settle by issuing a variable number of its shares or other equity instruments based solely on (i) a fixed monetary amount known at inception or (ii) something other than changes in its own equity instruments, d) SFAS No. 150 does not apply to features embedded in a financial instrument that is not a derivative in its entirety. The adoption of this statement did not impact the Companys results of operations or financial position. In December 2003, the FASB released revised SFAS No. 132, "Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits." The revised standard provides required disclosures for pensions and other postretirement benefit plans and is designed to improve disclosure transparency in financial statements. The revised standard replaces existing pension disclosure requirements. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 132 in its fiscal 2004 financial statements. See the pension and other postretirement benefit plans footnote. In December 2003, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 ("SAB 104"), "Revenue Recognition," which rescinded accounting guidance contained in SAB 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," and the SECs "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements Frequently Asked Questions and Answers." The adoption of SAB 104 did not have a material impact on the Companys revenue recognition policies. Forward looking statements Information included within this Form 10 K describing the projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, fluid management, automotive and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Companys entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Companys significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials, supplies, and insurance; the cost of pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Companys employees; the Companys ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired 8 Precision Castparts Corp. & Subsidiaries businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvements. Any forward looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any forward looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document. 9 Precision Castparts Corp. & Subsidiaries   
 
