ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") addresses the financial condition of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, "The Hartford" or the "Company") as of December 31, 2002, compared with December 31, 2001, and its results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes beginning on page F 1. Certain of the statements contained herein (other than statements of historical fact) are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive and legislative developments. These forward looking statements are subject to change and uncertainty which are, in many instances, beyond the Companys control and have been made based upon managements expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect upon the Company. There can be no assurance that future developments will be in accordance with managements expectations or that the effect of future developments on The Hartford will be those anticipated by management. Actual results could differ materially from those expected by the Company, depending on the outcome of various factors. These factors include: the difficulty in predicting the Companys potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, in particular, significant uncertainty with regard to the outcome of the Companys current dispute with Mac Arthur Company and its subsidiary, Western MacArthur Company (collectively or individually, "MacArthur"); the uncertain nature of damage theories and loss amounts and the development of additional facts related to the September 11 terrorist attack ("September 11"); the uncertain impact on the Company of the Bush Administrations budget proposals relating to the distribution of nontaxable dividends to shareholders and the creation of new tax favored individual savings accounts; the response of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts, the impact of increasing reinsurance rates, and the availability and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses; the possibility of more unfavorable loss experience than anticipated; the possibility of general economic and business conditions that are less favorable than anticipated; the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both natural and man made; the effect of changes in interest rates, the stock markets or other financial markets; stronger than anticipated competitive activity; unfavorable legislative, regulatory or judicial developments; the Companys ability to distribute its products through distribution channels, both current and future; the uncertain effects of emerging claim and coverage issues; the effect of assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements; a downgrade in the Companys claims paying, financial strength or credit ratings; the ability of the Companys subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company; and other factors described in such forward looking statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to conform to the current year presentation. INDEX Critical Accounting Estimates 17 Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary 23 Life 27 Investment Products 29 Individual Life 30 Group Benefits 31 Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) 32 Property & Casualty 33 Business Insurance 36 Personal Lines 37 Specialty Commercial 38 Reinsurance 40 Other Operations (Including Asbestos and Environmental Claims) 41 Investments 46 Capital Markets Risk Management 50 Capital Resources and Liquidity 64 Effect of Inflation 71 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following estimates as critical in that they involve a higher degree of judgment and are subject to a significant degree of variability: reserves; valuation of investments and derivative instruments; deferred policy acquisition costs; pension and other postretirement benefits; and contingencies. In developing these estimates management makes subjective and complex judgments that are inherently uncertain and subject to material change as facts and circumstances develop. Although variability is inherent in these estimates, management believes the amounts provided are appropriate based upon the facts available upon compilation of the financial statements. 17 RESERVES LIFE Life insurance subsidiaries of The Hartford establish and carry as liabilities actuarially determined reserves, which are calculated to meet The Hartfords future obligations. Reserves for life insurance and disability contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the United States, which are modified to reflect The Hartfords actual experience when appropriate. These reserves are computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated premiums to be received and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are expected to be sufficient to meet The Hartfords policy obligations at their maturities or in the event of an insureds death. Changes in or deviations from the assumptions used for mortality, morbidity, expected future premiums and interest can significantly affect the Life reserve levels and related future operations. Reserves also include unearned premiums, premium deposits, claims incurred but not reported ("IBNR") and claims reported but not yet paid. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that is comparable to direct insurance reserves. The liability for policy benefits for universal life type contracts and interest sensitive whole life policies is equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders, including credited interest, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the Company for services to be performed over future periods and any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract. For investment contracts, policyholder liabilities are equal to the accumulated policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of deposit payments plus credited interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through the end of the period. Certain investment contracts include provisions whereby a guaranteed minimum death benefit is provided in the event that the contractholders account value at death is below the guaranteed value. Although the Company reinsures the majority of the death benefit guarantees associated with its in force block of business, declines in the equity market may increase the Companys net exposure to death benefits under these contracts. In addition, these contracts contain various provisions for determining the amount of the death benefit guaranteed following the withdrawal of a portion of the account value by the policyholder. Partial withdrawals under certain of these contracts may not result in a reduction in the guaranteed minimum death benefit in proportion to the portion surrendered. The Company records the death benefit costs, net of reinsurance, when deaths occur. For the Companys group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety of factors including particular diagnoses, termination rates and benefit levels. PROPERTY & CASUALTY The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims made under policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that past developments are an appropriate predictor of future events and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze experience, trends and other relevant factors. Reserve estimates can change over time because of unexpected changes in the external environment. Potential external factors include (1) changes in the inflation rate for goods and services related to covered damages such as medical care, hospital care, auto parts, wages and home repair, (2) changes in the general economic environment that could cause unanticipated changes in the claim frequency per unit insured, (3) changes in the litigious environment as evidenced by changes in claimant attorney representation in the claims negotiation and settlement process, (4) changes in the judicial environment regarding the interpretation of policy provisions relating to the determination of coverage and or the amount of damages awarded for certain types of damages, (5) changes in the social environment regarding the general attitude of juries in the determination of liability and damages, (6) changes in the regulatory environment regarding rates, rating plans and policy forms, (7) changes in the legislative environment regarding the definition of damages and (8) new types of injuries caused by new types of exposure to injury: past examples include breast implants, tobacco products, lead paint, construction defect and blood product contamination. Reserve estimates can also change over time because of changes in internal company operations. Potential internal factors include (1) periodic changes in claims handling procedures, (2) growth in new lines of business where exposure and loss development patterns are not well established or (3) changes in the quality of risk selection in the underwriting process. In the case of reinsurance, all of the above risks apply. In addition, changes in ceding company case reserving and reporting patterns create additional factors that need to be considered in estimating the reserves. Due to the inherent complexity of the assumptions used, final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present estimates, particularly when those settlements may not occur until well into the future. The Hartford, like other insurance companies, categorizes and tracks its insurance reserves by "line of business", such as general liability, commercial multi peril, workers compensation, auto bodily injury, homeowners and assumed reinsurance. Furthermore, The Hartford regularly reviews the appropriateness of reserve levels at the line of business level, taking into consideration the variety of trends that impact the ultimate settlement of claims for the subsets of claims in each particular line of business. Adjustments to previously established reserves, if any, are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary. In the judgment of management, all information currently available has been properly considered in the reserves established for claims and claim adjustment expenses. In the opinion of management, based upon the known facts and current law, the reserves recorded for The Hartfords property and casualty businesses at December 31, 2002 represent the Companys best estimate of its ultimate liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses related to losses covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant uncertainties surrounding environmental and particularly asbestos exposures, it is possible that managements estimate of 18 the ultimate liabilities for these claims may change and that the required adjustment to recorded reserves could exceed the currently recorded reserves by an amount that could be material to The Hartfords results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS The Hartford continues to receive claims that assert damages from asbestos and environmental related exposures. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by those who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean up costs. The Hartford wrote several different categories of insurance coverage to which asbestos and environmental claims may apply. First, The Hartford wrote direct policies as a primary liability insurance carrier. Second, The Hartford wrote direct excess insurance policies providing additional coverage for insureds that exhaust their primary liability insurance coverage. Third, The Hartford acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of risks previously assumed by other insurers writing primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, The Hartford participated as a London Market company that wrote both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business. In establishing asbestos reserves, The Hartford evaluates the exposure presented by each insured and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any, for each insured. In the course of this evaluation, The Hartford considers: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance The Hartford has issued to the insured; limits and deductibles; an analysis of each insureds potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including whether some or all of the asbestos claims for which the insured seeks coverage are products or completed operations claims subject to the aggregate limit. In establishing environmental reserves, The Hartford evaluates the exposure presented by each insured and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any, for each insured. In the course of this analysis, The Hartford considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, The Hartford considers numerous facts that are unique to each insured, to the extent known, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the insured at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between The Hartford and the insured, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance The Hartford has issued to the insured; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. For both asbestos and environmental reserves, The Hartford also compares its historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience, and net loss and expense paid and incurred experience year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity. Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated claim adjustment expense is determined for each insured by each policy year, The Hartford calculates its ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance and the Companys experience with reinsurance collections. Uncertainties Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related settlement expenses. Conventional reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux. As a result of the factors discussed in the following paragraphs, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. In particular, The Hartford believes there is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate development patterns, plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. Courts have reached inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; whether particular claims are product/completed operation claims subject to an aggregate limit and how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted. Furthermore, insurers in general, including The Hartford, have recently experienced an increase in the number of asbestos related claims due to, among other things, more intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, plaintiffs increased focus on new and previously peripheral defendants and an increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. Plaintiffs and insureds have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some policyholders have begun to assert new classes of claims for so called "non product" coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not apply. Recently, many insurers, including, in a limited number of instances, The Hartford, also have been sued directly by asbestos claimants asserting that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include court 19 decisions that have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than originally intended; inconsistent decisions, especially across jurisdictions and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured. Further uncertainties include the effect of the recent acceleration in the rate of bankruptcy filings by asbestos defendants on the rate and amount of The Hartfords asbestos claims payments; a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims which cannot now be anticipated; whether some policyholders liabilities will reach the umbrella or excess layer of their coverage; the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos claims in a manner inconsistent with The Hartfords previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against The Hartford; and unanticipated developments pertaining to The Hartfords ability to recover reinsurance for environmental and asbestos claims. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Additionally, the reporting pattern for excess insurance and reinsurance claims is much longer than direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or years to determine that the customers own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves. Given the factors and emerging trends described above, The Hartford believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos exposures. The Hartford continually evaluates new information and new methodologies in assessing its potential asbestos exposures. At any time, The Hartford may be conducting an analysis of newly identified information and completion of exposure analyses could cause The Hartford to change its estimates of its asbestos reserves and the effect of these changes could be material to the Companys consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Hartfords investments in both fixed maturities, which include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and commercial paper, and equity securities, which include common and non redeemable preferred stocks, are classified as "available for sale" as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". Accordingly, these securities are carried at fair value with the after tax difference from amortized cost, as adjusted for the effect of deducting the life and pension policyholders share of the immediate participation guaranteed contracts and the change in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, reflected in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). Policy loans are carried at outstanding balance, which approximates fair value. Other invested assets consist primarily of limited partnership investments that are accounted for by the equity method. The Companys net income from partnerships is included in net investment income. Other investments also include mortgage loans at amortized cost and derivatives at fair value. The fair value of securities is based upon quoted market prices or broker quotations when available. Where market prices or broker quotations are not available, management typically estimates the fair value based upon discounted cash flow, applying current interest rates for similar financial instruments with comparable terms and credit quality. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could be realized if the security were sold immediately. Derivative instruments are reported at fair value based upon internally established valuations that are consistent with external valuation models, quotations furnished by dealers in such instrument or market quotations. One of the significant estimations inherent in the valuation of investments is the evaluation of other than temporary impairments. The evaluation for other than temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process which is subject to risks and uncertainties in the determination of whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers financial condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. The Companys accounting policy requires that a decline in the value of a security below its amortized cost basis be assessed to determine if the decline is other than temporary. If so, the security is deemed to be impaired and, a charge is recorded in net realized capital losses equal to the difference between the fair value and amortized cost basis of the security. The fair value of the impaired investment becomes its new cost basis. The Company has a security monitoring process overseen by a committee of investment and accounting professionals that identifies securities that, due to certain characteristics, are subjected to an enhanced analysis on a quarterly basis. Such characteristics include, but are not limited to: a deterioration of the financial condition of the issuer, the magnitude and duration of unrealized losses, credit rating and industry category. The primary factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in value for corporate issued securities is other than temporary include: (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (b) the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (c) whether the debtor is current on contractually obligated interest and principal payments and (d) the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 99 20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets", requires the Company to periodically update its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If management estimates that the fair value of its securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment charge 20 is recognized. Projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral. Furthermore, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover to amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. Once an impairment charge has been recorded, the Company then continues to review the other than temporarily impaired securities for appropriate valuation on an ongoing basis. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS LIFE Policy acquisition costs, which include commissions and certain other expenses that vary with and are primarily associated with acquiring business, are deferred and amortized over the estimated lives of the contracts, usually 20 years. The deferred costs are recorded as an asset commonly referred to as deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"). At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the carrying value of the Companys Life operations DAC was $5.2 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. DAC related to traditional policies are amortized over the premium paying period in proportion to the present value of annual expected premium income. Adjustments are made each year to recognize actual experience as compared to assumed experience for the current period. DAC related to investment contracts and universal life type contracts are deferred and amortized using the retrospective deposit method. Under the retrospective deposit method, acquisition costs are amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits ("EGPs") from projected investment, mortality and expense margins and surrender charges. A portion of the DAC amortization is allocated to realized gains and losses. The DAC balance is also adjusted by an amount that represents the change in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs that would have been required as a charge or credit to operations had unrealized amounts been realized. Actual gross profits can vary from managements estimates, resulting in increases or decreases in the rate of amortization. The Company regularly evaluates its estimated gross profits to determine if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. Several assumptions considered to be significant in the development of EGPs include separate account fund performance, surrender and lapse rates, estimated interest spread and estimated mortality. The separate account fund performance assumption is critical to the development of the EGPs related to the Companys variable annuity and variable and interest sensitive life insurance businesses. The average long term rate of assumed separate account fund performance used in estimating gross profits for the variable annuity and variable life business was 9% at December 31, 2002 and 2001. For all other products including fixed annuities and other universal life type contracts the average assumed investment yield ranged from 5% to 8.5% for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. Due to the increased volatility and precipitous decline experienced by the U.S. equity markets in 2002, the Company enhanced its DAC evaluation process during the course of the year. The Company developed sophisticated modeling capabilities, which allowed it to run 250 stochastically determined scenarios of separate account fund performance. These scenarios were then utilized to calculate a reasonable range of estimates for the present value of future gross profits. This range is then compared to the present value of future gross profits currently utilized in the DAC amortization model. As of December 31, 2002, the current estimate falls within the reasonable range, and therefore, the Company does not believe there is evidence to suggest a revision to the EGPs is necessary. Additionally, the Company has performed various sensitivity analyses with respect to separate account fund performance to provide an indication of future separate account fund performance levels, which could result in the need to revise future EGPs. The Company has estimated that a revision to the future EGPs is unlikely in 2003 in the event that the separate account fund performance meets or exceeds the Companys long term assumption of 9% and that a revision is likely if the overall separate account fund performance is negative for the year. In the event that separate account fund performance falls between 0% and 9% during 2003, the Company will need to evaluate the actual gross profits versus the mean EGPs generated by the stochastic DAC analysis and determine whether or not to make a revision to the future EGPs. Factors that will influence this determination include the degree of volatility in separate account fund performance, when during the year performance becomes negative and shifts in asset allocation within the separate account made by policyholders. The overall return generated by the separate account is dependent on several factors, including the relative mix of the underlying sub accounts among bond funds and equity funds as well as equity sector weightings. The Companys overall separate account fund performance has been reasonably correlated to the overall performance of the S&P 500 Index, although no assurance can be provided that this correlation will continue in the future. Should the Company change its assumptions utilized to develop EGPs (commonly referred to as "unlocking") the Company would record a charge (or credit) to bring its DAC balance to the level it would have been had EGPs been calculated using the new assumptions from the date of each policy. The Company evaluates all critical assumptions utilized to develop EGPs (e.g. lapse, mortality) and will make a revision to future EGPs to the extent that actual experience is significantly different than expected. The overall recoverability of the DAC asset is dependent on the future profitability of the business. The Company tests the aggregate recoverability of the DAC asset by comparing the amounts deferred to total EGPs. In addition, the Company routinely stress tests its DAC asset for recoverability against severe declines in its separate account assets, which could occur if the equity markets experienced another significant sell off, as the majority of policyholders money held in the separate accounts are invested in the equity market. As of December 31, 2002, separate account assets could fall 25% and the Company believes its DAC asset would still be recoverable. PROPERTY & CASUALTY The Property & Casualty operations also incur costs, including commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting and policy issuance costs, that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of property casualty insurance business and are deferred and amortized ratably over the period the related premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, and if 21 not, are charged to expense. Anticipated investment income is considered in the determination of the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, no material amounts of deferred acquisition costs were charged to expense based on the determination of recoverability. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Pursuant to accounting principles related to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit obligations to employees under its various benefit plans, the Company is required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the related liabilities and expense each period. The two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes information provided by its plan actuaries. In particular, the Company uses an interest rate yield curve developed and published by its plan actuaries. The yield curve is comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. Discounting the cash flows of the Companys pension plan using this yield curve, it was determined that 6.50% is the appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2002 to calculate the Companys accrued benefit cost liability. Accordingly, the 6.50% discount rate will also be used to determine the Companys 2003 pension expense. The Company determines the long term rate of return assumption for the pension plans asset portfolio based on analysis of the portfolios historical rates of return balanced with future long term return expectations. Based on its long term outlook with respect to the markets, which has been influenced by the poor equity market performance in recent years as well as the recent decline in fixed income security yields, the Company lowered its long term rate of return assumption from 9.75% to 9.00% as of December 31, 2002. To illustrate the impact of these assumptions on annual pension expense for 2003 and going forward, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $12, and a 25 basis point change in the long term asset return assumption will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $5. CONTINGENCIES Management follows the requirements of SFAS No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies". This statement requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. The evaluation is a two step process, including: determining a likelihood of loss, and, if a loss is probable, developing a potential range of loss. Management establishes reserves for these contingencies at its "best estimate", or, if no one number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, the Company records an estimated reserve at the low end of the range of losses. The majority of contingencies currently being evaluated by the Company relate to litigation and tax matters, which are inherently difficult to evaluate and subject to significant changes. 22 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: OPERATING SUMMARY OVERVIEW 2002 2001 2000 Earned premiums $ 10,301 $ 9,409 $ 8,941 Fee income 2,577 2,633 2,484 Net investment income 2,953 2,850 2,674 Other revenue 476 491 459 Net realized capital gains (losses) (400) (236) 145 TOTAL REVENUES 15,907 15,147 14,703 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 9,524 9,764 8,419 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits 2,241 2,214 2,213 Insurance operating costs and expenses 2,317 2,037 1,958 Goodwill amortization 60 28 Other expenses [1] 757 731 667 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 14,839 14,806 13,285 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES 1,068 341 1,418 Income tax expense (benefit) 68 (200) 390 INCOME BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES 1,000 541 1,028 Minority interest in consolidated subsidiary (54) INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES 1,000 541 974 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [2] (34) NET INCOME [3] 1,000 507 974 Less: Restructuring charges, net of tax (11) Loss from early retirement of debt, net of tax (8) Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [2] (34) Net realized capital gains (losses), after tax (250) (164) 12 OPERATING INCOME [3] $ 1,250 $ 724 $ 962 [1] For the year ended December 31, 2001, includes $16 of restructuring charges and $13 of accelerated amortization of issuance costs on the Companys 8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, which were redeemed on December 31, 2001. [2] Represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 133, as amended, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" of $(23) and EITF Issue No. 99 20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets" of $(11). [3] 2002 includes a $76 tax benefit at Life, $11 after tax expense at Life related to Bancorp Services, LLC litigation ("Bancorp") and $8 after tax benefit in Lifes September 11 exposure. 2001 includes $440, after tax, of losses related to September 11 and a $130 tax benefit at Life. The Hartford defines "operating income" as after tax operational results excluding, as applicable, net realized capital gains and losses, restructuring charges, losses from early retirement of debt and the cumulative effect of accounting changes. Operating income is a performance measure used by the Company in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure delineates the results of operations of the Companys ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the Companys current business. However, operating income should only be analyzed in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, net income and may not be comparable to other performance measures used by the Companys competitors. OPERATING RESULTS 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues increased $760, or 5%. This increase was driven by strong earned premium growth within Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial whose premiums increased by $496, $237 and $200, respectively. Also contributing to the growth was a $61 increase in fee income for the Individual Life segment. Additionally, 2001 revenues included a reduction of $91 in Property & Casualty earned premiums, resulting from additional reinsurance cessions related to September 11. Partially offsetting the increases described above were higher net realized capital losses, which were $400 in 2002 compared with $236 in 2001. The increase in the net realized capital losses was due primarily to other than temporary write downs of corporate and asset backed securities including those in the telecommunication, utility and airline industries. Operating income increased $526, or 73%. The increase was partially due to $440 in losses, after tax and net of reinsurance, included in 2001 results related to September 11 and the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", which precluded the amortization of goodwill beginning on January 1, 2002. The Companys goodwill totaled $52, after tax, in 2001. Improved underwriting results in Property & Casualty, as well as increased operating income in the Group Benefits segment, also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting the increase was lower operating income in the Investment Products segment. 23 Net income increased $493, or 97%. The increase was due primarily to the growth in operating income described in the paragraph above, partially offset by higher after tax net realized capital losses in 2002 compared to 2001. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues increased $444, or 3%. Included in revenues in 2001 was a $91 reduction in Property & Casualty earned premiums, resulting from additional reinsurance cessions related to September 11. The increase in revenues was related to continued new business growth in the Group Benefits segment, increased fee income in Individual Life, primarily as a result of the April 2001 acquisition of the United States individual life insurance, annuity and mutual fund businesses of Fortis, Inc. (operating as "Fortis" or "Fortis Financial Group") and earned premium growth in most of the Property & Casualty segments. (For further discussion of the Fortis acquisition, see Note 18(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Also contributing to the increase was higher net investment income, primarily due to income earned on fixed maturities. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in revenues in the Other Operations segment, reflecting the sales of Property & Casualtys international subsidiaries. Operating income decreased $238, or 25%. This decrease was primarily the result of $440 of losses, after tax and net of reinsurance, related to September 11. Also contributing to the decline were decreased underwriting results in the Personal Lines and Reinsurance segments. Partially offsetting the decrease were a $130 tax benefit at Hartford Life, Inc. ("HLI"), primarily the result of the favorable treatment of certain tax matters related to separate account investment activity during the 1996 2000 tax years and increased operating income in Lifes four operating segments. Net income decreased $467, or 48%. The decrease was due primarily to the decline in operating income described above. In addition, net realized capital losses were $236 in 2001, compared with net realized capital gains of $145 in 2000. The change in net realized capital losses resulted from other than temporary impairments on fixed maturities in 2001. NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES See "Investment Results" in the Investments section. INCOME TAXES The effective tax rate for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was 6%, (59)% and 28%, respectively. Excluding the impacts of September 11, net realized capital losses and the HLI federal tax benefits of $76, $130 and $24 in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, the effective tax rate for 2002 was 20% compared with 19% and 22%, respectively, for 2001 and 2000. Tax exempt interest earned on invested assets and the separate account dividends received deduction were the principal causes of effective rates being lower than the 35% United States statutory rate in all years. Income taxes paid (received) in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $(102), $(52) and $95, respectively. (For additional information, see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARY Prior to the June 27, 2000 acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of HLI that The Hartford did not already own ("The HLI Repurchase"), the minority interest in the consolidated subsidiarys operating results represented approximately 19%. PER COMMON SHARE The following table represents earnings per common share data for the past three years: 2002 2001 2000 Basic earnings per share $4.01 $2.13 $4.42 Diluted earnings per share $3.97 $2.10 $4.34 Weighted average common shares outstanding 249.4 237.7 220.6 Weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares 251.8 241.4 224.4 ADOPTION OF FAIR VALUE RECOGNITION PROVISIONS FOR STOCK COMPENSATION In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure and Amendment to SFAS No. 123", which provides three optional transition methods for entities that decide to voluntarily adopt the fair value recognition principles of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and modifies the disclosure requirements of that Statement. Under the prospective method, stock based compensation expense is recognized for awards granted after the beginning of the fiscal year in which the change is made. The modified prospective method recognizes stock based compensation expense related to new and unvested awards in the year of change equal to that which would have been recognized had SFAS No. 123 been adopted as of its effective date, fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. The retrospective restatement method recognizes stock compensation costs for the year of change and restates financial statements for all prior periods presented as though the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been adopted as of its effective date. Beginning in January 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of accounting for employee stock compensation under SFAS No. 123. The Company believes the use of the fair value method to record employee stock based compensation expense is consistent with the Companys accounting for all other forms of compensation. The Company had applied the intrinsic value based provisions set forth in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". Under the intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined on the measurement date, that is the first date on which both the number of shares the employee is entitled to receive and the exercise price are known. Compensation expense, if any, is measured based on the awards intrinsic value, which is the excess of the market price of the stock over the exercise price on the measurement date. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, compensation expense related to the Companys stock based compensation plans, including non option plans, was $6, $8 and $23 after tax, respectively. The expense related to stock based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for 2002 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been 24 applied to all awards since the effective date of SFAS No. 123. (For further discussion of the Companys stock compensation plans, see Notes 1(f) and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) SFAS No. 123 permits companies either to use the fair value method and recognize compensation expense upon the issuance of stock options, thereby lowering earnings, or, alternatively, to disclose the pro forma impact of the issuance. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the fair value method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in each period. For the years ended December 31, (In millions, except for per share data) 2002 2001 2000 Net income, as reported $ 1,000 $ 507 $ 974 Add: Stock based employee compensation expense included in reported net income, net of related tax effects [1] 3 2 1 Deduct: Total stock based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all awards, net of related tax effects (56) (46) (37) Pro forma net income [2] $ 947 $ 463 $ 938 Earnings per share: Basic as reported $ 4.01 $ 2.13 $ 4.42 Basic pro forma [2] $ 3.80 $ 1.95 $ 4.25 Diluted as reported $ 3.97 $ 2.10 $ 4.34 Diluted pro forma [2] $ 3.76 $ 1.92 $ 4.18 [1] Excludes impact of non option plans of $3, $6 and $22 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. [2] The pro forma disclosures are not representative of the effects on net income and earnings per share in future years. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black Scholes options pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2002, 2001 and 2000: dividend yield of 1.6% for 2002, 1.6% for 2001 and 1.5% for 2000; expected price variability of 40.8% for 2002, 29.1% for 2001 and 35.7% for 2000; risk free interest rates of 4.27% for 2002 grants, 4.98% for 2001 grants and 6.41% for 2000 grants; and expected lives of six years for 2002, six years for 2001 and four years for 2000. The use of the fair value recognition method results in compensation expense being recognized in the financial statements in different amounts and in different periods than the related income tax deduction. Generally, the compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123 will result in a deferred tax asset since the stock compensation expense is not deductible for tax until the option is exercised. Deferred tax assets arising under SFAS No. 123 will be evaluated as to future realizability to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary. SEGMENT RESULTS The Hartford is organized into two major operations: Life and Property & Casualty. Within these operations, The Hartford conducts business principally in nine operating segments. Additionally, the capital raising and purchase accounting adjustment activities related to The HLI Repurchase, capital raised in 2002 that was not contributed to the Companys insurance subsidiaries and the minority interest in HLI for pre acquisition periods are included in Corporate. Life is organized into four reportable operating segments: Investment Products, Individual Life, Group Benefits and Corporate Owned Life Insurance ("COLI"). Life also includes in an Other category its international operations, which are primarily located in Japan and Latin America; realized capital gains and losses; as well as corporate items not directly allocated to any of its reportable operating segments, principally interest expense; and intersegment eliminations. In January 2002, Property & Casualty integrated its Affinity Personal Lines and Personal Insurance segments, now reported as Personal Lines. As a result, Property & Casualty is now organized into five reportable operating segments: the North American underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance; and the Other Operations segment, which includes substantially all of the Companys asbestos and environmental exposures. "North American" includes the combined underwriting results of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance underwriting segments along with income and expense items not directly allocated to these segments, such as net investment income, net realized capital gains and losses, other expenses including interest, and income taxes. The measure of profit or loss used by The Hartfords management in evaluating performance is operating income, except for its North American underwriting segments, which are evaluated by The Hartfords management primarily based upon underwriting results. While not considered segments, the Company also reports and evaluates operating income results for Life, Property & Casualty and North American. Property & Casualty includes operating income for North American and the Other Operations segment. Certain transactions between segments occur during the year that primarily relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements, services provided and capital contributions. Certain reinsurance stop loss agreements exist between the segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another for losses incurred in excess of a predetermined limit. Also, one segment may purchase group annuity contracts from another to fund pension costs and claim annuities to settle casualty claims. In addition, certain intersegment transactions occur in Life. These transactions include interest income on allocated surplus and the allocation of certain net realized capital gains and losses through net investment income, utilizing the duration of the segments investment portfolios. 25 The following is a summary of net income and operating income for each of the Companys Life segments and aggregate net income and operating income for the Companys Property & Casualty operations. NET INCOME 2002 2001 2000 Life Investment Products $ 432 $ 463 $ 424 Individual Life 133 121 79 Group Benefits 128 106 90 COLI 32 37 34 Other (168) (42) (52) Total Life 557 685 575 Property & Casualty North American 482 (125) 466 Other Operations (13) 10 28 Total Property & Casualty 469 (115) 494 Corporate (26) (63) (95) TOTAL NET INCOME $ 1,000 $ 507 $ 974 OPERATING INCOME 2002 2001 2000 Life Investment Products $ 432 $ 463 $ 424 Individual Life 133 121 79 Group Benefits 128 106 90 COLI 32 37 34 Other 28 73 5 Total Life 753 800 632 Property & Casualty North American 519 (20) 412 Other Operations 4 6 17 Total Property & Casualty 523 (14) 429 Corporate (26) (62) (99) TOTAL OPERATING INCOME $ 1,250 $ 724 $ 962 The following is a summary of North American underwriting results by underwriting segment within Property & Casualty. Underwriting results represent premiums earned less incurred claims, claim adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses. UNDERWRITING RESULTS (BEFORE TAX) 2002 2001 2000 Business Insurance $ 44 $ 3 $ (50) Personal Lines (46) (78) 2 Specialty Commercial (23) (95) (103) Reinsurance (59) (149) (73) Underwriting results excluding September 11 (84) (319) (224) September 11 (647) TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (84) $ (966) $ (224) In the sections that follow, the Company analyzes the results of operations of its various segments using the performance measurements that the Company believes are meaningful. 26 LIFE Life provides investment and retirement products such as variable and fixed annuities; mutual funds and retirement plan services; individual and corporate owned life insurance; and group benefit products, such as group life and group disability insurance. Life derives its revenues principally from: (a) fee income, including asset management fees on separate account and mutual fund assets and mortality and expense fees, as well as cost of insurance charges; (b) fully insured premiums; (c) certain other fees; and (d) net investment income on general account assets. Asset management fees and mortality and expense fees are primarily generated from separate account assets, which are deposited with the Company through the sale of variable annuity, variable life products and mutual funds. Cost of insurance charges are assessed on the net amount at risk for investment oriented life insurance products. Premium revenues are derived primarily from the sale of group life and group disability insurance products. Lifes expenses essentially consist of interest credited to policyholders on general account liabilities, insurance benefits provided, dividends to policyholders, costs of selling and servicing the various products offered by the Company and other general business expenses. Lifes profitability depends largely on the amount of assets under management, the level of fully insured premiums, the adequacy of product pricing and underwriting discipline, claims management and operating efficiencies and its ability to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and credited rates to customers. The level of assets under management is generally impacted by equity market performance, persistency of the in force block of business, sales and other deposits, as well as any acquired blocks of business. OPERATING SUMMARY [1] 2002 2001 2000 Fee income $ 2,577 $ 2,633 $ 2,484 Earned premiums 2,187 2,142 1,886 Net investment income 1,858 1,779 1,592 Other revenue 120 128 116 Net realized capital losses (317) (133) (88) TOTAL REVENUES 6,425 6,549 5,990 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 3,648 3,611 3,162 Insurance operating costs and expenses 1,438 1,390 1,281 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits 628 642 671 Goodwill amortization 24 6 Other expenses 144 117 82 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 5,858 5,784 5,202 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES 567 765 788 Income tax expense 10 54 213 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [2] (26) NET INCOME [3] 557 685 575 Less: Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [2] (26) Net realized capital losses, after tax (196) (89) (57) OPERATING INCOME [3] $ 753 $ 800 $ 632 [1] Life excludes the effect of The HLI Repurchase, along with the minority interest for pre acquisition periods, both of which are reflected in Corporate. [2] For the year ended December 31, 2001, represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 133 of $(23) and EITF Issue No. 99 20 of $(3). [3] For the year ended December 31, 2002, includes $76 tax benefit related to separate account investment activity and an $8 after tax benefit related to September 11. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2002, includes $11 after tax expense related to the Bancorp litigation. For the year ended December 31, 2001, includes $130 tax benefit related to separate account investment activity and $20 of after tax losses related to September 11. For the year ended December 31, 2000, includes $32 tax benefit related to favorable tax items. As discussed above, Life consists of the following reportable operating segments: Investment Products, Individual Life, Group Benefits and COLI. In addition, Life includes in an Other category its international operations, which are primarily located in Japan and Latin America, and corporate items not directly allocated to any of its reportable operating segments. On April 2, 2001, The Hartford acquired the United States individual life insurance, annuity and mutual fund businesses of Fortis. (For further discussion, see "Acquisitions" in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section and Note 18(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) This transaction was accounted for as a purchase and, as such, the revenues and 27 expenses generated by this business from April 2, 2001 forward are included in Lifes consolidated results of operations. On June 27, 2000, The Hartford acquired all of the outstanding shares of HLI that it did not already own. (For additional information, see Note 18(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Life operation decreased $124, or 2%, primarily driven by realized capital losses of $317 in 2002 as compared to $133 in 2001. (See the Investments section for further discussion of investment results and related realized capital losses.) Additionally, COLI experienced a decline in revenues of $127, or 18%, as a result of the decrease in leveraged COLI account values as compared to a year ago. However, the Life operation experienced revenue growth across its other operating segments. Revenues related to the Investment Products segment increased $91, or 4%, as a result of continued growth related to its institutional investment product business, which more than offset the decline of $40, or 3%, in revenues within the individual annuity operation. Lower assets under management due to the decline in the equity markets are the principal driver of declining revenues for the individual annuity operation. The Group Benefits segment experienced an increase in revenues of $75, or 3%, as a result of strong sales to new customers and solid persistency within the in force block of business. Additionally, Individual Life revenues increased by $68, or 8%, as a result of the Fortis acquisition and increased life insurance in force. Expenses increased $30, or 1%, due to a lower benefit recorded related to favorable resolution of dividends received deduction ("DRD") related tax items (see also the discussion of DRD tax matter at Note 16(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), an increase in benefits and claims of $37, or 1%, due primarily to growth in the Group Benefits segment and higher death benefits in the Investment Products segment, as a result of the lower equity markets and additional expenses related to the Fortis acquisition. These increases were offset by a decrease in income tax expense due to lower pre tax income as compared to a year ago. Expenses increased $122, or 6%, in the Investment Products segment, principally related to the growth in the institutional investment product business and a $31 increase in death benefits related to the individual annuity operation, as a result of depressed contractowner account values driven by the lower equity markets. In addition, 2002 expenses include $11, after tax, of accrued expenses recorded within the COLI segment related to the Bancorp litigation. (For a discussion of the Bancorp litigation, see Note 16(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Also included in expenses was an after tax benefit of $8, recorded within "Other", associated with favorable development related to Lifes estimated September 11 exposure. Net income and operating income decreased $128, or 19%, and $47, or 6%, respectively, due to the decline in revenues and increase in expenses described above. In 2002, Life recognized an $8 after tax benefit due to favorable development related to September 11. In 2001, Life recorded a $20 after tax loss related to September 11. Excluding the impact of September 11, net income decreased $156, or 22%, and operating income decreased $75, or 9%. Net income for the Investment Products segment was down $31, or 7%, as growth in the other investment products businesses, particularly institutional investment products, was more than offset by the decline in revenues in the individual annuity operation, which was negatively impacted by the lower equity markets. COLI net income decreased $5, or 14%. Excluding the impact of September 11, COLIs net income decreased $7, or 18%, primarily the result of the charge associated with the Bancorp litigation. The declines in net income for those segments were partially offset by increases in net income for the Group Benefits and Individual Life segments. Group Benefits earnings increased $22, or 21%. Excluding the impact of September 11, Group Benefits net income increased $20, or 19%. The increases were principally driven by ongoing premium growth and stable loss and expense ratios and improving loss ratios. Individual Life net income increased $12, or 10%. Excluding the impact of September 11, Individual Lifes net income increased $9, or 7%, as the result of the Fortis acquisition. Net income for Other decreased $126 and operating income decreased $45, or 62%. In 2002, Life recognized an $8 after tax benefit due to favorable development related to September 11 in Other. In 2001, Life recorded a $13 after tax loss related to September 11 in Other. Excluding the impact of September 11, Other net income decreased $147 and operating income decreased $66, or 77%. The decline in net income of the Other segment is principally due to higher realized capitalized losses and a lower tax benefit recorded in 2002 compared to 2001 as discussed above. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues increased $559, or 9%, primarily related to the growth across each of Lifes primary operating segments, particularly the Individual Life and Group Benefits segments, where revenues increased $250, or 39%, and $300, or 14%, respectively. The revenue growth in the Individual Life segment was primarily due to higher earned fee income and net investment income resulting from the business acquired from Fortis. The Group Benefits segment experienced higher earned premiums due to strong sales and persistency. The Investment Products segment also contributed to the revenue increase as a result of higher fee income in the retail mutual fund business and higher net investment income in the institutional business. Revenues related to the Companys Individual Annuity business were down $46, or 3%, primarily due to lower fee income as a result of the lower equity markets in 2001. Additionally, COLI revenues were below prior year due to a decrease in variable COLI sales and the declining block of leveraged COLI business. Benefits claims and expenses increased $582, or 11%, primarily associated with the growth in Life revenues discussed above. Net income increased $110, or 19%, and operating income increased $168, or 27%, led by the Individual Life and Group Benefits segments, where net income increased $42, or 53%, and $16, or 18%, respectively. In addition, the 2001 results include a $130 federal income tax benefit primarily related to separate account investment activity and a $20 loss associated with the impact of September 11. Additionally, 2000 results include a benefit of $32 also related to favorable tax items. Excluding these tax items and the impact of September 11, net income increased $32, or 6%, and operating income increased $90, or 15%, for the year ended December 31, 2001, as each of the Companys operating segments experienced growth from the prior year. 28 INVESTMENT PRODUCTS OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Fee income and other $ 1,518 $ 1,620 $ 1,639 Net investment income 1,079 886 741 TOTAL REVENUES 2,597 2,506 2,380 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 944 819 700 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 648 608 551 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 444 461 516 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 2,036 1,888 1,767 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 561 618 613 Income tax expense 129 155 189 NET INCOME $ 432 $ 463 $ 424 Individual variable annuity account values $ 64,343 $ 74,581 $ 78,174 Other individual annuity account values 10,565 9,572 9,059 Other investment products account values 19,921 19,322 17,376 TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES 94,829 103,475 104,609 Mutual fund assets under management 15,321 16,809 11,432 TOTAL INVESTMENT PRODUCTS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT $ 110,150 $ 120,284 $ 116,041 The Investment Products segment focuses on the savings and retirement needs of the growing number of individuals who are preparing for retirement or have already retired through the sale of individual variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment products. The Company is both a leading writer of individual variable annuities and a top seller of individual variable annuities through banks in the United States. In addition, in 2001 The Hartford Mutual Funds, Inc. reached $12 billion in assets faster than any other retail oriented mutual fund family in history, according to Strategic Insight. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Investment Products segment increased $91, or 4%. These increases in revenues are primarily driven by growth in the institutional investment product business, where related assets under management increased $669, or 7%, to $9.7 billion as of December 31, 2002. This revenue increase was partially offset by lower fee income related to the individual annuity operation as average account values decreased from $85.7 billion to $79.5 billion compared to prior year, primarily due to the lower equity markets. Expenses increased $122, or 6%, driven by increases of $84, or 11%, in interest credited on general account assets, $61, or 6%, in commissions and wholesaling expenses, and $31 in individual annuity death benefit costs due to the lower equity markets, and an increase of $37, or 23%, in operating expenses incurred by other investment products, primarily driven by the mutual fund business. Partially offsetting these increases was a $34, or 8%, decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to the individual annuity business, which declined as a result of lower gross profits, driven by the decrease in fee income and the increase in death benefit costs. Net income decreased $31, or 7%, driven by the continued lower equity markets resulting in the decline in revenues in the individual annuity operation and increases in the death benefit costs incurred by the individual annuity operation. The decrease in individual annuity revenues was significantly offset by growth in revenues related to other investment products, particularly the institutional investment product business. (For discussion of the potential future financial statement impact of continued declines in the equity market on the Investment Products segment, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk".) 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues in the Investment Products segment increased $126, or 5%, driven primarily by other investment products. Fee income from other investment products increased $59, or 21%, principally due to growth in Lifes mutual fund assets under management. Mutual fund assets increased $5.4 billion, or 47%, to $16.8 billion as of December 31, 2001, due to strong sales and the inclusion of the mutual fund assets acquired from Fortis. Net investment income from other investment products increased $113, or 20%, due mostly to growth in the institutional business, where account values were $9.1 billion at December 31, 2001, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 18%, from a year ago. The increase in revenues from other investment products was partially offset by individual annuity revenues, which decreased $46, or 3%. Fee income and net investment income from the individual annuity business acquired from Fortis helped to partially offset lower revenues in the individual annuity operation which was primarily associated with decreased account values resulting from the lower equity markets as compared to the prior year. Individual annuity account values at December 31, 2001 were $84.2 billion, a decrease of $3.1 billion, or 4%, from December 31, 2000. Benefits, claims and expenses increased $121, or 7%, driven by higher interest credited and insurance operating expenses related to other investment products consistent with the revenue growth described above. Interest credited related to other investment products increased $83, or 18%, while insurance operating expenses increased $44, or 17%. Also, individual annuity benefits and claims expenses increased $35, or 14%, principally due to the business acquired from Fortis and higher death benefits resulting from the lower equity markets in 2001. Individual annuitys insurance operating costs increased $13, or 4%, due to the business acquired from Fortis. Excluding Fortis, individual annuitys operating expenses decreased $39, or 4%, from prior year, driven by managements continued focus on maintaining operating expense levels. Partially offsetting the 29 increase in benefits, claims and insurance operating costs was a decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs resulting from the lower gross profits associated with the individual annuity business. In addition, income tax expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, was $118, a $45, or 28%, decrease due to lower pretax operating income and the ongoing tax impact related to separate account investment activity. Net income increased $39, or 9%. These increases were driven by the growth in revenues in other investment products described above, the favorable impact of Fortis and the lower effective tax rate related to the individual annuity business. OUTLOOK Management believes the market for retirement products continues to expand as individuals increasingly save and plan for retirement. Demographic trends suggest that as the "baby boom" generation matures, a significant portion of the United States population will allocate a greater percentage of their disposable incomes to saving for their retirement years due to uncertainty surrounding the Social Security system and increases in average life expectancy. As this market grows, particularly for variable annuities and mutual funds, new companies are continually entering the market, aggressively seeking distribution channels and pursuing market share. One factor which could impact the Investment Products segment is the Presidents 2004 budget proposal. See Capital Resources and Liquidity section under "Legislative Initiatives" for further discussion of this proposed legislation. The individual annuity segment continues to be impacted by the lower equity markets in terms of lower assets under management. However, the Company experienced strong sales of annuities which were $11.6 billion in 2002 as compared to $10.0 billion in 2001. Partially contributing to the growth in sales is The Hartfords introduction of Principal First, a guaranteed withdrawal benefit rider, which was developed in response to the customers needs. Based on VARDS, the Company had 9.4% market share as of December 31, 2002 as compared to 8.7% at December 31, 2001. (For discussion of the potential future financial statement impact of continued declines in the equity market on the Investment Products segment, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Equity Risk".) Management believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader in the financial services industry. For example, The Hartford introduced a tax advantaged college savings product ("529 plan") in early 2002 called SMART 529. SMART 529 is a state sponsored education savings program established by the State of West Virginia which offers an easy way for both the residents of West Virginia and out of state participants to invest for a college education. The SMART 529 product complements HLIs existing offering of investment products (mutual funds, variable annuities, 401(k), 457 and 403(b) plans). It also leverages the Companys capabilities in distribution, service and fund performance. In its first year the SMART 529 product has been well received by many Americans saving for college. INDIVIDUAL LIFE OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Fee income and other $ 697 $ 647 $ 459 Net investment income 261 243 181 TOTAL REVENUES 958 890 640 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 443 385 274 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 160 168 145 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 159 159 103 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 762 712 522 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 196 178 118 Income tax expense 63 57 39 NET INCOME $ 133 $ 121 $ 79 Variable life account values $ 3,648 $ 3,993 $ 2,947 Total account values $ 7,557 $ 7,868 $ 5,849 Variable life insurance in force $ 66,715 $ 61,617 $ 33,460 Total life insurance in force $ 126,680 $ 120,269 $ 75,113 The Individual Life segment provides life insurance solutions to a wide array of partners to solve the wealth protection, accumulation and transfer needs of their affluent, emerging affluent and business insurance clients. Additionally, the Fortis transaction, through the addition of a retail broker dealer, which has been renamed Woodbury Financial Services, has allowed the Individual Life segment to increase its reach in the emerging affluent market. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Individual Life segment increased $68, or 8%, primarily driven by business growth, including the impact of the Fortis transaction. However, the Company sold $173 of new business in 2002, as compared to $228 in 2001. Expenses increased $56, or 7%, principally driven by the growth in the business resulting from the Fortis acquisition. In addition, mortality experience (expressed as death claims as a percentage of net amount at risk) for 2002 increased as compared to the prior year, but was in line with managements expectations. Net income increased $12, or 10%. Individual Life incurred an after tax charge of $3 related to September 11 in the third quarter of 2001. Excluding this charge, Individual Lifes earnings increased $9, or 7%, for the year ended December 31, 30 2002, due to the contribution to earnings from the Fortis transaction. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues in the Individual Life segment increased $250, or 39%, primarily due to the business acquired from Fortis. Fee income, including cost of insurance charges, increased $180, or 40%, driven principally by growth in the variable life business, where account values increased $1.0 billion, or 35%, and life insurance in force increased $28.2 billion, or 84%, from 2000. In addition, net investment income on general account business (universal life, interest sensitive whole life and term life) increased $66, or 34%, consistent with the growth in related account values. Benefits, claims and expenses increased $190, or 36%, due principally to the growth in revenues described above. Although death benefits were higher in 2001 than the prior year as a result of the increase in life insurance in force, year to date mortality experience (expressed as death claims as a percentage of net amount at risk) for 2001 was within pricing assumptions. Net income increased $42, or 53%, primarily due to the revenue growth described above. Individual Life incurred an after tax loss of $3 related to September 11. Excluding this loss, net income increased $45, or 57%, primarily due to the growth factors described above. OUTLOOK Individual Life sales continue to be impacted by the lower equity markets, uncertainty surrounding estate tax legislation and aggressive competition from universal life providers. However, The Hartfords acquisition of the United States individual life insurance business of Fortis has increased its scale while broadening its distribution capabilities as described above. Additionally, The Hartford continues to introduce new and enhanced products, which are expected to increase universal life sales. GROUP BENEFITS OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Earned premiums and other $ 2,327 $ 2,259 $ 1,981 Net investment income 255 248 226 TOTAL REVENUES 2,582 2,507 2,207 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 1,878 1,874 1,643 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 541 498 450 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 2,419 2,372 2,093 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 163 135 114 Income tax expense 35 29 24 NET INCOME $ 128 $ 106 $ 90 The Hartford is a leading provider of group benefits, and through this segment, sells group life and group disability insurance as well as other products, including stop loss and supplementary medical coverages to employers and employer sponsored plans, accidental death and dismemberment, travel accident and other special risk coverages to employers and associations. The Company also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing services and reinsurance to other insurers and self funded employer plans. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Group Benefits segment increased $75, or 3%, and excluding buyouts, increased $159, or 7%, driven primarily by growth in premiums, which increased $66, or 3%. The growth in premiums was due to an increase of $281, or 14%, in fully insured ongoing premiums, as a result of steady persistency and pricing actions on the in force block of business and strong sales to new customers. Offsetting this increase was a decrease in military Medicare supplement premiums of $131 resulting from federal legislation effective in the fourth quarter of 2001. This legislation provides retired military officers age 65 and older with full medical insurance paid for by the government, eliminating the need for Medicare supplement insurance. Additionally, premium revenues for 2002 were offset by an $84 decrease in total buyouts. Buyouts involve the acquisition of claim liabilities from another carrier for a purchase price calculated to cover the run off of those liabilities plus administration expenses and profit. Due to the nature of the buyout market place, the predictability of buyout premiums is uncertain. Fully insured ongoing sales were $597, an increase of $66, or 12%. Expenses increased $53, or 2%, and excluding buyouts, increased $137, or 6%. The increase in expenses is consistent with the growth in revenues previously described. Benefits and claims expenses, excluding buyouts, increased $88, or 5%. The segments loss ratio (defined as benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses as a percentage of premiums and other considerations, excluding buyouts) was 81% down slightly from 82% in 2001. Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased $43, or 9%, due to the fully insured ongoing premium growth previously described and continued investments in technology and service. The segments expense ratio of insurance operating costs and other expenses to premiums and other considerations was approximately 23%, consistent with prior year. Net income increased $22, or 21%. Group Benefits incurred an after tax charge of $2 related to September 11 in the third quarter of 2001. Excluding this charge, earnings increased $20, or 19%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to a year ago. The increase in earnings is due to the increase in premium revenues and favorable loss costs, which was partially offset by increased insurance operating costs and other expenses as previously described. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues in the Group Benefits segment increased $300, or 14%, driven primarily by growth in 31 premiums, which increased $278, or 14%, due to solid persistency and increased premium rates related to the in force block of business, and strong sales to new customers. Fully insured ongoing sales for the year ended December 31, 2001 were $531, an increase of $85, or 19%, compared to 2000. Additionally, net investment income increased $22, or 10%, due to the overall growth in the in force business. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased $279, or 13%, driven primarily by higher benefits and claims, which increased $231, or 14%. These increases are consistent with the growth in the business described above as the loss ratio has remained relatively consistent compared to the 2000 loss ratio. In addition, expenses other than benefits and claims increased $48, or 11%, for the year ended December 31, 2001, also consistent with the overall growth in the segment. Net income increased $16, or 18%, driven by overall revenue growth and consistent loss and expense ratios as compared to the prior year. Group Benefits incurred an after tax loss of $2 related to September 11; excluding this loss, net income increased $18, or 20%. OUTLOOK Employees continue to look to the workplace for a broader and ever expanding array of insurance products. As employers design benefit strategies to attract and retain employees while attempting to control their benefit costs, management believes that the need the Group Benefits segments products will continue to expand. This, combined with the significant number of employees who currently do not have coverage or adequate levels of coverage, creates unique opportunities for the Group Benefits segments products and services. Current market conditions, including low interest rates, rising medical costs and cost containment pressure on employers, create a challenging business environment. However, the Companys strength in claim and risk management, service and distribution will enable the Group Benefits segment to continue to capitalize on market opportunities despite the challenging business environment. CORPORATE OWNED LIFE INSURANCE (COLI) OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Fee income and other $ 316 $ 367 $ 401 Net investment income 276 352 366 TOTAL REVENUES 592 719 767 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 401 514 545 Insurance operating costs and expenses 82 84 102 Dividends to policyholders 62 66 67 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 545 664 714 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 47 55 53 Income tax expense 15 18 19 NET INCOME $ 32 $ 37 $ 34 Variable COLI account values $ 19,674 $ 18,019 $ 15,937 Leveraged COLI account values 3,321 4,315 4,978 TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES $ 22,995 $ 22,334 $ 20,915 The Hartford is a leader in the COLI market, which includes life insurance policies purchased by a company on the lives of its employees, with the company or a trust sponsored by the company named as beneficiary under the policy. Until passage of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), the Company sold two principal types of COLI business: leveraged and variable products. Leveraged COLI is a fixed premium life insurance policy owned by a company or a trust sponsored by a company. HIPAA phased out the deductibility of interest on policy loans under leveraged COLI through the end of 1998, virtually eliminating all future sales of this product. Variable COLI continues to be a product used by employers to fund non qualified benefits or other postemployment benefit liabilities. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 COLI revenues decreased $127, or 18%, primarily related to lower net investment and fee income due to the declining block of leveraged COLI, where related account values declined by $994, or 23%. Net investment income decreased $76, or 22%, while fee income decreased $50, or 14%. Expenses decreased $122, or 18%, which is relatively consistent with the decrease in revenues described above. However, the decrease was partially offset by $11, after tax, in accrued litigation expenses related to the Bancorp dispute. (For a discussion of the Bancorp litigation, see Note 16(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Net income decreased $5, or 14%, compared to prior year. COLI incurred an after tax charge of $2 related to September 11 in the third quarter of 2001. Excluding the impact of September 11, COLIs net income decreased $7, or 18%, principally due to the $11 after tax expense accrued in connection with the Bancorp litigation. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 COLI revenues decreased $48, or 6%, mostly due to lower fee income and net investment income. Fee income and other decreased $34, or 8%, due to a decline in variable COLI sales and deposits which were approximately $1.5 billion in 2001 as compared to $2.9 billion in 2000. In addition, net investment income decreased $14, or 4%, due primarily to lower interest rates and the decline in leveraged COLI account values. Benefits, claims and expenses decreased $50, or 7%, directly related to the decrease in revenue discussed above. 32 Net income increased $3, or 9%, primarily due to the overall growth in variable COLI business and earnings associated with the leveraged COLI business recaptured in 1998. COLI incurred an after tax charge of $2 related to September 11; excluding this charge, net income increased $5, or 15%. OUTLOOK The focus of this segment is variable COLI, which continues to be a product generally used by employers to fund non qualified benefits or other postemployment benefit liabilities. The leveraged COLI product has been an important contributor to The Hartfords profitability in recent years and will continue to contribute to the profitability of The Hartford in the future, although the level of profit has declined in 2002, as compared to 2001. COLI continues to be subject to a changing legislative and regulatory environment that could have a material adverse effect on its business. PROPERTY & CASUALTY OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Earned premiums $ 8,114 $ 7,267 $ 7,055 Net investment income 1,075 1,053 1,072 Other revenue [1] 356 363 343 Net realized capital gains (losses) (83) (103) 234 TOTAL REVENUES 9,462 8,580 8,704 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 5,870 6,146 5,253 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 1,613 1,572 1,542 Insurance operating costs and expenses 879 647 677 Goodwill amortization 3 5 Other expenses [2] 559 560 543 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 8,921 8,928 8,020 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE 541 (348) 684 Income tax expense (benefit) 72 (241) 190 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE 469 (107) 494 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [3] (8) NET INCOME (LOSS) [4] 469 (115) 494 Less: Restructuring charges, net of tax (10) Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [3] (8) Loss from early retirement of debt, net of tax (8) Net realized capital gains (losses), after tax (54) (75) 65 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) [4] $ 523 $ (14) $ 429 NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY UNDERWRITING RATIOS Loss ratio [5] 59.6 70.3 60.8 Loss adjustment expense ratio [5] 11.2 12.5 11.5 Expense ratio [5] 27.7 29.0 29.7 COMBINED RATIO [5] [6] [7] 99.2 112.4 102.4 [1] Primarily servicing revenue. [2] Includes restructuring charges of $15 for the year ended December 31, 2001 and $13 of accelerated amortization of issuance costs on the Companys 8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities which were redeemed on December 31, 2001. [3] Represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of EITF Issue No. 99 20. [4] 2001 includes $420 of after tax losses related to September 11. [5] For 2001, excluding the impact of September 11, loss ratio was 62.8, loss adjustment expense ratio was 11.4, expense ratio was 28.7 and combined ratio was 103.4. [6] Includes policyholder dividend ratios of 0.7, 0.5, and 0.5 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 (including and excluding the impact of September 11), and 2000, respectively. [7] GAAP combined ratios were 99.8, 112.5 (including a 9.0 point impact related to September 11) and 102.9 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Net income increased $584 primarily due to after tax losses related to September 11 of $420 in 2001, an increase in operating income as discussed below and a decrease in net realized capital losses. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Net income decreased $609 primarily due to after tax losses related to September 11 of $420, an increase in net realized capital losses, and a decrease in operating income as discussed below. In January 2002, Property & Casualty integrated its Affinity Personal Lines and Personal Insurance segments, now reported as Personal Lines. As a result, Property & Casualty is now organized into five reportable operating segments: the North 33 American underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance; and the Other Operations segment, which includes substantially all of the Companys asbestos and environmental exposures. Also reported within Property & Casualty is North American, which includes the combined underwriting results of the North American underwriting segments along with income and expense items not directly allocated to these segments, such as net investment income, net realized capital gains and losses, other expenses including interest and income taxes. RATIOS The previous table and the following segment discussions for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 include various operating ratios. Management believes that these ratios are useful in understanding the underlying trends in The Hartfords current business. However, these measures should only be used in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, underwriting income and may not be comparable to other performance measures used by the Companys competitors. The "loss ratio" is the ratio of claims expense (exclusive of claim adjustment expenses) to earned premiums. The "loss adjustment expense ratio" represents the ratio of claim adjustment expenses to earned premiums. The "expense ratio" is the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses (commissions; taxes, licenses and fees; as well as other underwriting expenses) to written premiums. The "policyholder dividend ratio" is the ratio of policyholder dividends to earned premiums. The "combined ratio" is the sum of the loss ratio, the loss adjustment expense ratio, the expense ratio and the policyholder dividend ratio. These ratios are relative measurements that describe for every $100 of net premiums earned or written, the cost of losses and statutory expenses, respectively. The combined ratio presents the total cost per $100 of premium production. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates underwriting losses. GAAP combined ratios differ from statutory combined ratios primarily due to the deferral and amortization of certain expenses for GAAP reporting purposes and the use of earned premium in the expense ratio rather than written premium. The following is a summary of Property & Casualty operating income, after tax. Operating income represents after tax operating results excluding, as applicable, net realized capital gains or losses, losses from early retirement of debt, the cumulative effect of accounting changes and restructuring charges. Operating income is a performance measure used by The Hartford in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure delineates the results of The Hartfords ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the Companys current business. 2001 INCLUDING EXCLUDING (after tax) 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 2000 North American Underwriting results $ (54) $ (627) $ (207) $ (146) Net investment income 736 722 722 695 Other expenses [1] (163) (115) (115) (137) NORTH AMERICAN OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) [2] 519 (20) 400 412 Other operations operating income [2] 4 6 6 17 PROPERTY CASUALTY OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) [2] $ 523 $ (14) $ 406 $ 429 [1] Includes interest expense, net servicing income and goodwill amortization. [2] A reconciliation of net income (loss) to operating income (loss) is provided in the preceding table. Underwriting results are discussed in each of the Business Insurance, Personal Lines, Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance segment sections. Net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses are discussed in the Investments section. (For a further discussion of September 11, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Operating income, excluding the after tax $420 impact of September 11, increased $117, or 29%, primarily due to improved underwriting results across each of the North American underwriting segments, particularly in Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance. Partially offsetting the improvement was an increase in other expenses primarily as a result of an increase in e business research and development expenses and certain employee benefits costs, as well as expenses incurred related to the transfer of the Companys New Jersey personal lines agency auto business to Palisades Safety and Insurance Association and Palisades Insurance Co. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Operating income, excluding the after tax $420 impact of September 11, decreased $23, or 5%. Earned premium growth in Business Insurance due to price increases, strong new business growth and improved premium renewal retention, as well as an increase in North American investment income, was offset by increased losses in the personal automobile lines of business and in Reinsurance. A decrease in underwriting results of $16, after tax, related to Enron Corporation and lower income resulting from the sales of international subsidiaries also contributed to the decrease. RESERVES As discussed in Notes 1(l), 7 and 16(b) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Critical Accounting Estimates section, reserving for property and casualty losses is an estimation process. As additional experience and other relevant claim data become available, reserve levels are adjusted accordingly. Such adjustments of reserves related to claims incurred in prior years are a natural occurrence in the loss reserving process and are referred to as "reserve development". Reserve development that increases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called "reserve strengthening". Reserve 34 development that decreases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called "reserve releases". Reserve development can influence the comparability of year over year underwriting results and are set forth in the paragraphs and tables that follow. Reserve strengthening in the Business Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2002 was not significant. In Personal Lines, prior accident year loss and loss adjustment expenses for non standard auto were strengthened due to heavier than expected frequency, severity and litigation rates on prior accident years. In addition, the prior accident year provision was increased modestly for mold losses. Virtually all of the strengthening in Specialty Commercial is due to deductible workers compensation losses on a few large accounts. Reserve strengthening in the Reinsurance segment occurred across multiple accident years, primarily 1997 through 2000, and across several lines of business. High reported losses from ceding companies have persisted throughout 2002 and loss ratios have been revised upward. Virtually all of the reserve strengthening in the Other Operations segment related to asbestos. There was little reserve strengthening or weakening by segment in 2001 with the exception of Other Operations, where the strengthening was related almost entirely to non asbestos and environmental exposures. (For further discussion of reserve activity related to asbestos and environmental, see the Other Operations section of the MD&A.) A rollforward of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses by segment for Property & Casualty follows: For the year ended December 31, 2002 Business Personal Specialty Other Total Insurance Lines Commercial Reinsurance Operations P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,440 $ 1,530 $ 5,073 $ 1,956 $ 4,037 $ 17,036 Reinsurance and other recoverables 375 51 2,088 448 1,214 4,176 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,065 1,479 2,985 1,508 2,823 12,860 ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 1,943 2,244 820 492 78 5,577 Prior years 19 75 29 77 93 293 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 1,962 2,319 849 569 171 5,870 LESS PAYMENTS 1,649 2,155 875 551 359 5,589 Other [1] (300) 300 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,378 1,643 2,959 1,226 2,935 13,141 Reinsurance and other recoverables 368 50 2,041 388 1,171 4,018 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,746 $ 1,693 $ 5,000 $ 1,614 $ 4,106 $ 17,159 [1] $300 represents the transfer of the international lines of the Reinsurance segment to Other Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2001 Business Personal Specialty Other Total Insurance Lines Commercial Reinsurance Operations P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 3,954 $ 1,403 $ 5,628 $ 1,416 $ 3,892 $ 16,293 Reinsurance and other recoverables 195 42 2,011 234 1,389 3,871 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 3,759 1,361 3,617 1,182 2,503 12,422 ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 1,944 2,156 897 983 12 5,992 Prior years (10) 17 28 (11) 119 143 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 1,934 2,173 925 972 131 6,135 LESS PAYMENTS 1,628 2,055 955 646 308 5,592 Other [1] [2] (602) 497 (105) ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,065 1,479 2,985 1,508 2,823 12,860 Reinsurance and other recoverables 375 51 2,088 448 1,214 4,176 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,440 $ 1,530 $ 5,073 $ 1,956 $ 4,037 $ 17,036 [1] $602 represents the transfer of asbestos and environmental reserves to Other Operations [2] Includes $(101) related to the sale of international subsidiaries. 35 For the year ended December 31, 2000 Business Personal Specialty Other Total Insurance Lines Commercial Reinsurance Operations P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 3,913 $ 1,304 $ 5,694 $ 1,330 $ 4,208 $ 16,449 Reinsurance and other recoverables 155 25 1,954 168 1,404 3,706 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 3,758 1,279 3,740 1,162 2,804 12,743 ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 1,492 1,898 857 704 219 5,170 Prior years 14 23 (78) (80) 148 27 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 1,506 1,921 779 624 367 5,197 LESS PAYMENTS 1,505 1,839 902 604 484 5,334 Other [1] (184) (184) ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 3,759 1,361 3,617 1,182 2,503 12,422 Reinsurance and other recoverables 195 42 2,011 234 1,389 3,871 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 3,954 $ 1,403 $ 5,628 $ 1,416 $ 3,892 $ 16,293 [1] Includes $(161) related to the sale of international subsidiaries. BUSINESS INSURANCE OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING EXCLUDING 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 2000 Written premiums $ 3,412 $ 2,871 $ 2,886 $ 2,405 Change in unearned premium reserve 286 241 241 107 Earned premiums $ 3,126 $ 2,630 $ 2,645 $ 2,298 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 1,962 1,934 1,704 1,506 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 779 681 681 605 Insurance operating costs and expenses 341 257 257 237 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ 44 $ (242) $ 3 $ (50) Loss ratio 50.7 59.9 52.3 52.4 Loss adjustment expense ratio 12.0 13.7 12.1 13.1 Expense ratio 31.9 32.3 32.1 33.8 Combined ratio [1] [2] 96.2 107.1 97.8 100.6 [1] Includes policyholder dividend ratios of 1.5, 1.3, and 1.3, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 (including and excluding September 11), and 2000, respectively. [2] GAAP combined ratios were 97.0, 108.0 (including a 9.3 point impact related to September 11) and 101.2 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small and middle market commercial businesses primarily throughout the United States. This segment offers workers compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine coverages. The Business Insurance segment also provides commercial risk management products and services. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Business Insurance achieved written premium growth of $541 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 19%, due to strong growth in both middle market and small commercial. The increase in middle market of $295, or 21%, was due primarily to double digit pricing increases as well as continued strong new business growth and premium renewal retention. Small commercial increased $231, or 16%, reflecting double digit written pricing increases, particularly in the property line of business. Business Insurance earned premiums increased $496 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 19%, due to strong 2002 and 2001 written pricing increases impacting 2002 earned premiums. Middle market increased $260, or 20%, and small commercial increased $221, or 16%, reflecting double digit earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $286 (including $245 of underwriting loss related to September 11 in 2001), with a corresponding 10.9 point decrease (including a 9.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio, excluding September 11, was primarily due to double digit earned pricing increases and minimal loss costs. Business Insurance continues to benefit from favorable frequency loss costs. While 2002 catastrophe losses are in line with prior year, the level of catastrophes is below management expectations. In 36 addition, the beneficial effects of strong pricing on the underwriting expense ratio have been offset by an increase in taxes, licenses and fees rates, and increased technology spending. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Written premiums increased $466 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 19%, driven by strong growth in small commercial and middle market. Small commercial increased $278, or 24%, as a result of written pricing increases, strong premium renewal retention and the success of product, marketing, technology and service growth initiatives. The increase in middle market of $203, or 16%, was attributable primarily to double digit pricing increases and improved premium renewal retention as well as strong new business growth. Earned premiums increased $332 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 14%, due primarily to strong earned premium growth in both small commercial and middle market. Small commercial increased $252, or 23%, as a result of mid single digit earned pricing increases, while middle market achieved double digit earned pricing increases, driving $95, or 8% growth. Underwriting results decreased $192 (including $245 of underwriting loss related to September 11) with a corresponding 6.5 point increase (including a 9.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. Excluding the impact of September 11, the improvement in underwriting results and the combined ratio was primarily due to strong pricing and decreased frequency loss costs as well as an improved expense ratio. The favorable expense ratio was the result of 2001 benefits from the field office reorganization and reorganization costs in 2000 not recurring in 2001. OUTLOOK Firming market conditions in the standard commercial sector are expected to continue in 2003, although price competition within many markets of the commercial industry will remain a challenge. Passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 alleviates some of the economic uncertainty surrounding the industry in the event of future terrorist attacks. (For further discussion, see Capital Resources and Liquidity section under "Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002".) Management expects the Business Insurance segment to continue to deliver positive results in 2003 despite an expected return to a normal level of catastrophes. Significant growth in small commercial and middle market businesses is expected to be achieved, in part, due to continued strategic actions being implemented. This includes providing a complete product solution for agents and customers, expanding non traditional distribution alternatives, executing geographic market share strategies and developing technology solutions that deliver superior business tools to The Hartfords agents and alliances. Continued pricing and underwriting actions are expected to have a positive impact on the segments overall profitability in 2003. PERSONAL LINES OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING EXCLUDING 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 2000 Written premiums $ 3,050 $ 2,860 $ 2,860 $ 2,647 Change in unearned premium reserve 66 113 113 100 Earned premiums $ 2,984 $ 2,747 $ 2,747 $ 2,547 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 2,319 2,173 2,164 1,921 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 415 385 385 377 Insurance operating costs and expenses 296 276 276 247 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (46) $ (87) $ (78) $ 2 Loss ratio 66.1 67.4 67.2 64.7 Loss adjustment expense ratio 11.6 11.7 11.6 10.8 Expense ratio 23.0 24.0 24.0 24.6 Combined ratio [1] 100.8 103.1 102.8 100.1 Other revenue [2] $ 123 $ 150 $ 150 $ 166 [1] GAAP combined ratios were 101.0, 102.7 (including a 0.3 point impact related to September 11) and 99.6 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. [2] Represents servicing revenue. Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and home based business coverages to the members of AARP through a direct marketing operation; to individuals who prefer local agent involvement through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market ("Standard") and in the non standard automobile market through the Companys Omni Insurance Group, Inc. ("Omni") subsidiary. Personal Lines also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through AARPs Health Care Options. The Hartfords exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, which was renewed during the fourth quarter of 2001, continues through January 1, 2010 for automobile, homeowners and home based business. The Health Care Options agreement continues through 2007. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Personal Lines written premiums increased $190, or 7%, primarily driven by growth in AARP, partially offset by a reduction in Standard. AARP increased $217, or 13%, primarily as a result of written pricing increases and improved premium renewal retention. Standard decreased $27, or 3%, due primarily to the conversion to six month policies in certain states. 37 Earned premiums increased $237, or 9%, due primarily to growth in AARP and Standard. AARP increased $187, or 12%, and Standard increased $30, or 4%, due primarily to earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $41 (including $9 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 2.3 point decrease (including a 0.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. While automobile results improved due to favorable frequency loss costs, the line of business was negatively impacted by the increasing severity of automobile claims as a result of medical inflation and higher repair costs. The underwriting experience relating to homeowners has remained favorable due to improved frequency of claims, despite an increase in the severity of individual homeowners claims. An improvement in the underwriting expense ratio, primarily due to written pricing increases and prudent expense management, resulted in a 1.0 point decrease in the expense ratio over the prior year. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Written premiums increased $213, or 8%, driven by growth in both the AARP program and Standard. AARP increased primarily as a result of strong new business growth and continued steady premium renewal retention. Written premium growth in the standard automobile and homeowners lines was primarily due to pricing increases and strong premium renewal retention. Earned premiums increased $200, or 8%, driven by growth in AARP and Standard. AARP increased $113, or 8%, and Standard increased $50, or 7%, due primarily to earned pricing increases. Underwriting results decreased $89 (including $9 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 3.0 point increase (including a 0.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. Higher automobile losses continue to adversely impact underwriting results and the combined ratio. In addition, the loss adjustment expense ratio increased, primarily as a result of higher losses and increased litigation costs. Although underwriting expenses increased, primarily due to increased written premiums, the expense ratio improved as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of lower commissions and prudent expense management. OUTLOOK While the personal lines industry operating fundamentals are expected to improve in 2003, the market will continue to face significant challenges. Price increases in automobile and homeowners are expected to continue, but industry rates may remain inadequate. State regulatory constraints may prevent companies from obtaining the necessary rates. Regulatory requirements applying to premium rates vary from state to state, and, in most states, rates are subject to prior regulatory approval. Industry loss costs are expected to continue to increase in 2003, but pricing is expected to exceed loss cost inflation. The deterioration in loss performance since 2000 has been driven primarily by severity loss costs. Issues surrounding mold and medical inflation may continue to impact loss performance in Personal Lines. The Personal Lines segment is focused on managing premium growth to optimize earnings, while investing to enhance its product and technology platforms. Improved financial results in 2003 are expected for the Personal Lines segment as a result of continuing state driven pricing and underwriting actions, even though catastrophes are expected to return to a normal level. Personal Lines product breadth, channel diversity and technology position this segment to deal effectively with the market risks that face the personal lines industry. SPECIALTY COMMERCIAL OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING EXCLUDING 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 2000 Written premiums $ 1,362 $ 989 $ 996 $ 1,080 Change in unearned premium reserve 140 (33) (33) 46 Earned premiums $ 1,222 $ 1,022 $ 1,029 $ 1,034 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 849 925 766 779 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 240 267 267 268 Insurance operating costs and expenses 156 92 91 90 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (23) $ (262) $ (95) $ (103) Loss ratio 57.6 73.1 59.5 60.4 Loss adjustment expense ratio 11.8 17.6 15.0 15.1 Expense ratio 27.9 33.8 33.4 31.3 Combined ratio [1] [2] 98.1 124.8 108.3 107.1 Other revenue [3] $ 233 $ 213 $ 213 $ 168 [1] Includes policyholder dividend ratios of 0.7, 0.4, and 0.2, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 (including and excluding the impact of September 11), and 2000, respectively. [2] GAAP combined ratios were 99.4, 124.2 (including a 16.5 point impact related to September 11) and 109.7 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. [3] Represents servicing revenue. 38 Specialty Commercial offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services. The segment provides standard commercial insurance products including workers compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large sized companies. Specialty Commercial also provides bond, professional liability, specialty casualty and agricultural coverages, as well as core property and excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by standard lines insurers. Alternative markets, within Specialty Commercial, provides insurance products and services primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self insurance groups. In addition, Specialty Commercial provides third party administrator services for claims administration, integrated benefits, loss control and performance measurement through Specialty Risk Services. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Specialty Commercial written premiums increased $373 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 38%, primarily driven by the property, specialty casualty and professional liability lines of business. Written premiums for property grew $121, or 43%, while specialty casualty grew $114, or 55%, both primarily due to significant price increases and new business growth reflecting an improving operating environment. Professional liability written premiums grew $71, or 42%, also due to significant price increases. Earned premiums increased $200 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 20%, primarily driven by robust earned premium growth in property of $65, or 23%, specialty casualty of $73, or 35%, and professional liability of $83, or 71%, as a result of double digit earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $239 (including $167 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 26.7 point decrease (including a 16.5 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio, excluding September 11, was primarily due to favorable property, specialty casualty and professional liability results, as a result of the favorable pricing environment. Increased losses incurred in agriculture, due to the Midwest drought; the risk management division, due to deductible workers compensation losses on a few large accounts; and bond partially mitigated the improvement. In addition, the underwriting expense ratio improved primarily due to pricing increases and prudent expense management. Lower catastrophes, primarily as a result of the Seattle earthquake in the first quarter of 2001, also contributed to the improvement in underwriting results. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Written premiums decreased $91 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 8%, primarily due to a decrease in written premiums from sold or exited business lines which include farm, public entity and Canada. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in written premiums due to The Hartfords purchase, in the third quarter of 2000, of the in force, new and renewal financial products business, as well as the majority of the excess and surplus lines business, of Reliance Group Holdings, Inc. ("Reliance"), which resulted in $60 of additional written premiums as compared with 2000. Earned premiums declined $12 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 1%, primarily due to a decrease in earned premiums from the sold or exited business lines referred to above. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in earned premiums due to The Hartfords purchase of the financial products and excess and surplus lines businesses of Reliance mentioned above, which resulted in $74 of additional earned premiums as compared with 2000. Underwriting results decreased $159 (including $167 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 17.7 point increase (including a 16.5 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. Excluding the impact of September 11, underwriting results improved despite an increase in the combined ratio. The improved underwriting results were primarily a result of favorable results in the property lines of business and lower losses and underwriting expenses from the sold or exited business lines. Partially offsetting the improvement were deteriorating underwriting results in risk management and a decrease in underwriting results related to Enron Corporation. The increase in the combined ratio was primarily due to an increase in the net commissions as well as additional taxes, licenses and fees in the risk management and professional liability lines of business. The increase in the commission ratio was primarily a result of lower ceding commissions. OUTLOOK Specialty Commercial is made up of a diverse group of businesses that are unique to commercial lines. Each line of business operates independently with its own set of business objectives and focuses on the operational dynamics of its specific industry. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, each have a unique business model and operating cycle. Firming market conditions in most of the specialty commercial sectors are expected to continue in 2003. Passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 alleviates some of the economic uncertainty surrounding the industry in the event of future terrorist attacks. (For further discussion, see the Capital Resources and Liquidity section under "Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002".) Strong written pricing in 2002 will contribute to earned premium growth expected in 2003. Management believes that continued strategic actions being taken, which include focusing on maximizing growth in the segments most profitable lines; providing innovative new products; expanding non traditional distribution alternatives; and further leveraging underwriting discipline and capabilities will continue to enable the segment to capitalize on an improved marketplace. 39 REINSURANCE OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING EXCLUDING 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 2000 Written premiums $ 703 $ 849 $ 918 $ 826 Change in unearned premium reserve (10) (2) (2) 17 Earned premiums $ 713 $ 851 $ 920 $ 809 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 569 972 815 624 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 179 239 239 243 Insurance operating costs and expenses 24 15 15 15 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (59) $ (375) $ (149) $ (73) Loss ratio 74.9 108.9 83.7 72.7 Loss adjustment expense ratio 4.9 5.3 4.9 4.4 Expense ratio 27.2 29.7 27.4 31.7 Combined ratio [1] 107.1 143.9 116.1 108.9 [1] GAAP combined ratios were 107.9, 144.0 (including a 27.8 point impact related to September 11) and 109.0 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Reinsurance segment offers a full range of treaty and facultative reinsurance products including property, casualty, catastrophe, marine and alternative risk transfer which includes non traditional reinsurance products such as multi year property catastrophe treaties, aggregate of excess of loss agreements and quota share treaties with event or aggregate loss ratio caps. The segment assumes insurance from other insurers, primarily through reinsurance brokers, but also through direct channels and pools in the worldwide reinsurance market. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Reinsurance written premiums decreased $146 (including $69 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 17%, and earned premiums decreased $138 (including $69 related to September 11), or 16%, due to the exclusion of the exited international business, which in January 2002, was transferred to Other Operations and a reduction in the Alternative Risk Transfer ("ART") line of business. Written and earned premiums from the international business in 2001 were $131 and $136, respectively. ART written and earned premiums decreased $97, or 53%, and $94, or 51%, respectively, due primarily to the expiration of a non recurring loss portfolio reinsurance contract and the non renewal of a quota share treaty with one ceding company. Excluding ART, international and the impact of September 11, written premiums increased $13, or 2%, and earned premiums increased $23, or 4%, due primarily to significant pricing increases as a result of continued market firming, substantially offset by premium reductions due to underwriting requirements to maintain profitability targets. Underwriting results improved $316 (including $226 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 36.8 point decrease (including a 27.8 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio, excluding September 11, was primarily due to underwriting initiatives including a shift to excess of loss policies and increased property business mix, as well as the exit from nearly all international lines, an intense focus on returns and lower catastrophes. Underwriting results and the combined ratio were negatively impacted by adverse loss development on prior underwriting years. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Written premiums increased $23 (including $69 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 3%, and earned premiums increased $42 (including $69 related to September 11), or 5%, primarily due to growth in the ART line of business. ART written and earned premiums increased $91, or 100%, and $98, or 111%, respectively, driven primarily by a significant first quarter ART transaction. The achievement of double digit pricing increases in traditional reinsurance was offset by the termination of business that failed to meet profitability targets. Underwriting results decreased $302 (including $226 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 35.0 point increase (including a 27.8 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. Excluding September 11, the decrease in underwriting results and corresponding increase in the combined ratio were primarily attributable to reserve development in 2001 compared to 2000. OUTLOOK The property and casualty reinsurance market remains extremely competitive and stressed. The pricing environment continued to improve in 2002, and it is anticipated by management that favorable rates and terms will continue in 2003. Reserve deficiencies, low investment yields and poor historical performance are driving a renewed focus on profitability. The marketplace is also experiencing a flight to quality as customers pay more for reinsurance. Additionally, terrorism remains a key underwriting issue. Terrorism losses incurred by reinsurers are not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002. The dislocation of certain broker market competitors continues in the aftermath of September 11. In addition, some companies are raising capital, while others are reviewing their strategic options. New Bermuda companies are emerging with a greater share of the overall market. This will continue to put pressure on industry rates and terms. 40 OTHER OPERATIONS (INCLUDING ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS) OPERATING SUMMARY 2002 2001 2000 Earned premiums $ 69 $ 17 $ 367 Net investment income 147 146 210 Other revenue 9 Net realized capital gains (losses) (27) 5 16 TOTAL REVENUES 189 168 602 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 171 142 423 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 49 Insurance operating costs and expenses 62 7 88 Other expenses (25) 5 7 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 208 154 567 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES (19) 14 35 Income tax expense (benefit) (6) 4 7 NET INCOME (LOSS) (13) 10 28 Less: Net realized capital gains (losses), after tax (17) 4 11 OPERATING INCOME $ 4 $ 6 $ 17 The Other Operations segment includes operations that are under a single management structure, Heritage Holdings, that was finalized in late 2001 to be responsible for two related activities. The first activity is the management of certain subsidiaries and operations of The Hartford that have discontinued writing new business. The second is the management of claims (and the associated reserves) related to asbestos and environmental exposures. The companies in this segment which are not writing new business include First State Insurance Company and two affiliated subsidiaries, located in Boston, Massachusetts; Heritage Reinsurance Company, Ltd. ("Heritage Re"), headquartered in Bermuda; and Excess Insurance Company, Ltd., located in the United Kingdom. Each of these companies is primarily focused on managing claims, resolving disputes and collecting reinsurance proceeds, related largely to business underwritten and reinsured in 1985 and prior years. While the business that was written in these units on either a direct or reinsurance basis spanned a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance policies and coverages, a significant and increasing proportion of current and future claims activity arising from these businesses relates to environmental and, to a greater extent, asbestos exposures. Other Operations also includes the results of The Hartfords international property casualty businesses (substantially all of which were disposed of in a series of transactions concluding in 2001) and the international businesses of the Reinsurance segment, exited in the fourth quarter of 2001. (For further discussion of the restructuring, see Note 18(c) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In 2001, The Hartford consolidated management and claims handling of all of its asbestos and environmental exposures under the Other Operations management structure. This action was taken to maximize The Hartfords management expertise in this area. As part of this organizational change, the Company consolidated substantially all of its asbestos and environmental loss reserves into one legal entity, Heritage Re, within Other Operations through intercompany reinsurance agreements. These reinsurance agreements ceded $602 of the then carried reserves (net of reinsurance), primarily related to asbestos and environmental exposures from 1985 and prior, from the Specialty Commercial segment to Other Operations. In September 2001, The Hartford entered into an agreement to sell its Singapore based Hartford Insurance Company (Singapore), Ltd. The Company recorded a net realized capital loss of $9 after tax related to the sale, which was recorded in the 2001 investment results of North American. The sale was completed in January 2002. On February 8, 2001, The Hartford completed the sale of its Spain based subsidiary, Hartford Seguros. The Hartford received $29, before costs of sale and recorded a $16 after tax net realized capital loss that was reported in the 2001 investment results of North American. On December 22, 2000, The Hartford completed the sale of its Netherlands based Zwolsche Algemeene N.V. ("Zwolsche") subsidiary located in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. The Hartford received $547, before costs of sale and recorded a $69 after tax net realized capital gain that was reported in the 2000 investment results of North American. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues for the year increased $21 due to earned premium, offset by net realized capital losses. The increase in earned premium was primarily due to runoff premium from the exited international business of the Reinsurance segment, which was transferred to Other Operations in January 2002. Operating income was relatively flat compared to the prior year period. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Revenues were down $434, or 72%, and operating income was down $11, or 65%, primarily due to the sale of Zwolsche. Asbestos and Environmental Claims The Hartford continues to receive asbestos and environmental claims, both of which affect Other Operations. These claims are made pursuant to several different categories of insurance 41 coverage. First, The Hartford wrote direct policies as a primary liability insurance carrier. Second, The Hartford wrote direct excess insurance policies providing additional coverage for insureds that exhaust their primary liability insurance coverage. Third, The Hartford acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of risks previously assumed by other insurers writing primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, The Hartford participated as a London Market company that wrote both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business. With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related settlement expenses. Conventional reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux. As a result of the factors discussed in the following paragraphs, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. In particular, The Hartford believes there is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate development patterns, plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. Courts have reached inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; whether particular claims are product/completed operation claims subject to an aggregate limit and how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted. Furthermore, insurers in general, including The Hartford, have recently experienced an increase in the number of asbestos related claims due to, among other things, more intensive advertising by lawyers, seeking asbestos claimants, plaintiffs increased focus on new and previously peripheral defendants and an increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. Plaintiffs and insureds have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition some policyholders have begun to assert new classes of claims for so called "non product" coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not apply. Recently, many insurers, including, in a limited number of instances, The Hartford, also have been sued directly by asbestos claimants asserting that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include: court decisions that have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than originally intended; inconsistent decisions, especially across jurisdictions and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured. Further uncertainties include the effect of the recent acceleration in the rate of bankruptcy filings by asbestos defendants on the rate and amount of The Hartfords asbestos claims payments; a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims which cannot now be anticipated; whether some policyholders liabilities will reach the umbrella or excess layer of their coverage; the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos claims in a manner inconsistent with The Hartfords previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against The Hartford; and unanticipated developments pertaining to The Hartfords ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Additionally, the reporting pattern for excess insurance and reinsurance claims is much longer than direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or years to determine that the customers own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves. Given the factors and emerging trends described above, The Hartford believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos and environmental exposures. The Hartford continually evaluates new information and new methodologies in assessing its potential asbestos exposures. At any time, The Hartford may be conducting an analysis of newly identified information. Completion of exposure analyses could cause The Hartford to change its estimates of its asbestos and environmental reserves and the effect of these changes could be material to the Companys consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Reserve Activity Reserves and reserve activity in the Other Operations segment are categorized and reported as asbestos, environmental or "all other" activity. The discussion below relates to reserves and reserve activity, net of applicable reinsurance. There are a wide variety of claims that drive the reserves associated with asbestos, environmental and all other categories the Company has defined in Other Operations. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by those who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean up costs. The all other category of reserves covers a wide range of insurance coverages, including liability for breast implants, blood products, construction defects and lead paint. The Other Operations historic book of business contains policies written from the 1940s to 1992, with the majority of the business spanning the interval 1960 to 1990. The Hartfords experience has been that this book of business has over time produced significantly higher claims and losses than were contemplated at inception. The areas of active claim activity have also shifted based on changes in plaintiff focus and the overall litigation environment. A significant portion of the claim reserves of the Other Operations segment relates to exposure to the insurance businesses of other insurers or reinsurers ("whole account" exposure). Many of these whole account exposures arise from reinsurance agreements previously written by The Hartford. The Hartfords net exposure in these arrangements has increased for a variety of reasons including 42 The Hartfords commutation of previous retrocessions of such business. Due to the reporting practices of cedants to their reinsurers, determination of the nature of the individual risks involved in these whole account exposures (such as asbestos, environmental, or other exposures) requires various assumptions and estimates, which are subject to uncertainty, as previously discussed. Consistent with the Companys long standing reserving practices, The Hartford will continue to regularly review and monitor these reserves and, where future developments indicate, make appropriate adjustments to the reserves. The loss reserving assumptions, drawn from both industry data and the Companys experience, have over time been applied to all of this business and have resulted in strengthening or weakening actions at various times over the past decade. During 2001, the Company observed a decrease in newly reported environmental claims as well as favorable settlements with respect to certain existing environmental claims. Both observations were consistent with longer term positive trends for environmental liabilities. In the same period, consistent with the reports of other insurers, The Hartford experienced an increase in the number of new asbestos claims by policyholders not previously identified as potentially significant claimants, including installers or handlers of asbestos containing products. In addition, new classes of claims were beginning to arise whereby some policyholders were asserting that their asbestos related claims fall within so called "non products" coverage contained within their policies rather than products hazard coverage and that the claimed non products coverage was not subject to any aggregate limit. Also, as previously noted, The Hartford consolidated management and claims handling responsibility of all of its asbestos and environmental exposures within Other Operations in 2001. Based on a review of the environmental claim trends that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2001 under the supervision of the then newly consolidated management structure and in light of the further uncertainties posed by the foregoing asbestos trends, the Company reclassified $100 of environmental reserves to asbestos reserves. During 2002, as part of the Companys ongoing monitoring of reserves, the Company reclassified $600 of reserves from the all other reserve category, of which $540 was reclassified to asbestos and $60 was reclassified to environmental claim reserves. The increase in reserves categorized as environmental of $60 (as contrasted with the $100 decrease in the fourth quarter of 2001) occurred because the reviews in each of the two periods employed actuarial techniques to analyze distinct and non overlapping blocks of reserves and associated exposures. Facts and circumstances associated with each block determined the resulting changes in category. A portion of the 2002 reclassification relates to re estimates of the appropriate allocation among the asbestos, environmental and all other categories of the aggregate reserves (net of reinsurance) carried for certain assumed reinsurance, commuted cessions and commuted retrocessions of whole account business. As part of the 2002 reclassification, The Hartford also revised formulas that it will use to allocate (among the asbestos, environmental and all other categories) future claim payments for which reinsurance arrangements were commuted and to allocate claim payments made to effect commutations. As a result of these revisions, payments categorized as asbestos and environmental exposures will be higher in future periods than in prior periods. Approximately $390 of the $600 reclassification resulted from changes in the estimates of the proportions of certain of the Companys broad based liability and assumed reinsurance reserves that would more appropriately be categorized as asbestos or environmental reserves. The change in allocation did not involve a change in The Hartfords estimated net liability with respect to the policies in question. Instead, the Companys estimate of what type of claims the insured would present against these liabilities changed. To give an example: when the Company writes a broad reinsurance contract for another insurer, it gives the insurer the right to submit a variety of different types of claims, up to a limit, against that policy. The Company establishes a reserve for that policy that considers the exposure for total incurred claims under that policy. Over time, the Company changes its view as to what type of claims may be presented, but its aggregate liability and appropriate reserve are less likely to change, particularly if the reserves are already at the limit payable under the policy. The foregoing $390 reduction of the all other reserves was related to the Companys assessment of trends that suggested noteworthy changes in the claims made against these reserves. These trends indicated that the categories of claims presented were becoming better defined. In response to these noted trends, management decided to study whether sufficient information existed to change estimates of what portions of certain reserves were likely to be used for asbestos and environmental claims. This study was completed in the second quarter of 2002. On a net basis, it resulted in approximately $60 of reserves being categorized as likely to be associated with an environmental claim and approximately $330 as likely to be associated with an asbestos claim. This resulted in a reclassification of $390 of reserves previously categorized in the all other category to the asbestos and environmental reserves categories, respectively. In the 2000 review of non asbestos or non environmental latent exposures, the Company noted that business written from 1986 to 1992 has produced less mass tort development over the ensuing 10 15 years than was the case for the business written from 1960 to 1986. At the time of this review, the Company developed an estimated actuarial range that indicated there could be a potential reserve deficiency but there was also a strong potential for reserve redundancy. At that time, the Company concluded that there was insufficient foundation to make a determination of redundancy and that to do so would be aggressive. In the second quarter 2002, The Hartford also completed a separate but related study of liabilities other than asbestos and environmental exposures in Other Operations. The study confirmed a continuation of the trends previously noted. It also produced a conservative end of the actuarial range indicating no material potential deficiency. With this new information, the Company felt sufficient foundation existed to estimate a redundancy of approximately $210 for reserves covering latent exposures in Other Operations other than asbestos and environmental. While the Company was conducting the foregoing studies, the Company was also monitoring the continued adverse trends in the reporting and settlement of asbestos claims. In light of these trends, which management believed likely to continue, 43 management decided to increase the Companys reserves for asbestos liability by approximately $210. The following table presents reserve activity, inclusive of estimates for both reported and incurred but not reported claims, net of reinsurance, for Other Operations, categorized by asbestos, environmental and all other claims, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Also included are the remaining asbestos and environmental exposures of North American. OTHER OPERATIONS CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 2002 Asbestos Environmental All Other Total Beginning liability net $ 616 $ 654 $ 1,591 $ 2,861 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 88 (11) 89 166 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (126) (112) (137) (375) Transfer of international lines of Reinsurance [1] 300 300 Other [2] 540 60 (600) ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 1,118 $ 591 $ 1,243 $ 2,952 2001 Beginning liability net [5] $ 572 $ 911 $ 1,753 $ 3,236 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 28 15 116 159 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (84) (172) (176) (432) Other [2] [6] 100 (100) (102) (102) ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 616 $ 654 $ 1,591 $ 2,861 2000 Beginning liability net [5] $ 625 $ 995 $ 1,976 $ 3,596 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 8 8 368 384 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (61) (92) (430) (583) Other [6] (161) (161) ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 572 $ 911 $ 1,753 $ 3,236 [1] Represents the January 1, 2002 transfer of reserves from the exited international reinsurance business from the Reinsurance segment to Other Operations. [2] The nature of these reallocations is described in the preceding discussions. [3] Ending liabilities include reserves for asbestos, environmental and all other reported in North American Property & Casualty of $13, $4 and $0, respectively, as of December 31, 2002, $6, $32 and $0, respectively, as of December 31, 2001, and $236, $430 and $67, respectively, as of December 31, 2000. [4] Gross of reinsurance, reserves for asbestos and environmental were $1,994 and $682, respectively, as of December 31, 2002, $1,633 and $919, respectively, as of December 31, 2001 and $1,506 and $1,483, respectively, as of December 31, 2000. [5] The net beginning liability has been adjusted to reflect the North American liabilities subject to the fourth quarter 2001 intercompany reinsurance cession, primarily related to asbestos and environmental reserves, from the Specialty Commercial segment to Other Operations. Also, excludes reserves of Property & Casualtys international businesses. [6] Includes the net effect of the sale of international subsidiaries. In comparing environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses paid from year to year, 2001 includes $56 of payments resulting from a global commutation where settlement was reached on both assumed and ceded reinsurance involvements. The trend in all other paid losses, when adjusted for the 2002 inclusion of HartRe international paids of $62, continues to decline year to year. Trends in asbestos paids and incurreds are addressed in the paragraphs preceding the table. The $11 negative incurred of environmental reserve development in 2002 is the result of continued favorable trends in environmental claims, as previously discussed. The Company manages its asbestos and environmental claims in three distinct categories of coverage types as reported in the following table. Direct policies include insurance policies issued to customers providing either primary coverage or excess of loss coverage over either The Hartfords own primary policies or the primary policies of other insurance companies. Assumed Reinsurance includes both "treaty" reinsurance (covering broad categories of claims or blocks of business) and "facultative" reinsurance (covering specific risks or individual policies of primary or excess insurance companies). London Market business includes the business written by one or more subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, which are no longer active in the insurance or reinsurance business. Such business includes both direct insurance and contracts of assumed reinsurance. Exposures on direct policies are the easiest to identify because specific policies can be associated with specific accounts and reserves established, where appropriate, for claims presented. Over the last three years, including the current reporting period, the Company experienced a reduction in newly reported environmental claims on Direct business, and actual claim payments have been made at levels within the Companys previously established provisions for loss. However, with respect to asbestos claims, the Company experienced a variety of negative trends, including: increasing number of policyholders making claims, an apparent increase in the number of claimants under such policies and an accelerated rate of policyholder bankruptcies. The combination of such events has the total value of potential claims higher into the excess 44 layers of the Companys policies and into later years of coverage than had been expected. Assumed Reinsurance claims (treaty and facultative) related to asbestos and environmental exposures continue to be reported by customers years after the expiration of their contracts with the Company. The reports the Company has received during 2002 are largely related to asbestos and environmental claims and reflect the same trends as those of the Direct policies, as previously discussed. The asbestos and environmental liability components of the London Market book of business consist of both direct policies of insurance and contracts of assumed reinsurance. As a participant in the London Market (comprised of both Lloyds of London and London Company Markets), the Company wrote business on a subscription basis, with the Companys involvement being limited to a relatively small percentage of a total contract placement. Claims are reported, via a broker, to the "lead" underwriter and, once agreed to, are presented to the following markets for concurrence. This reporting and claim agreement process makes estimating liabilities for this business the most uncertain of the three categories of claims (Direct, Assumed Domestic and London Market). Over the last three years, The Hartford has been experiencing lower than previously expected claim activity with respect to claims classified as environmental. During the last two years, The Hartford has been experiencing higher than previously expected claim activity with respect to claims classified as asbestos. The increase in both the number of claims being submitted and the number of customer bankruptcies, being driven by asbestos related issues, have accelerated over the last year. The following table sets forth, for the three years ended December 31, 2002, paid and incurred loss activity by the three categories of claims for asbestos and environmental. The table shows that in this timeframe asbestos payments and incurred losses have been increasing, while environmental activity generally has been improving. PAID AND INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE ("LAE") DEVELOPMENT ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASBESTOS ENVIRONMENTAL Paid Incurred Paid Incurred 2002 Loss & LAE Loss & LAE Loss & LAE Loss & LAE GROSS Direct $ 212 $ 559 $ 124 $ (9) Assumed Domestic 66 89 15 (39) London Market 35 26 24 (26) Total 313 674 163 (74) Ceded (187) (46) (51) 123 Net $ 126 $ 628 $ 112 $ 49 2001 GROSS Direct $ 173 $ 329 $ 148 $ (247) Assumed Domestic 61 63 68 (65) London Market 31 36 Total 265 392 252 (312) Ceded (181) (264) (80) 227 Net $ 84 $ 128 $ 172 $ (85) 2000 GROSS Direct $ 181 $ 163 $ 92 $ 15 Assumed Domestic 25 35 15 London Market 21 1 34 Total 227 199 141 15 Ceded (166) (191) (49) (7) Net $ 61 $ 8 $ 92 $ 8 OUTLOOK As previously noted, The Hartford reviews various components of its asbestos and environmental reserves on a periodic basis. Given the continuing adverse development experienced by The Hartford, as well as the negative trends that the insurance industry as a whole has recently seen with respect to asbestos, it was determined that a more in depth and comprehensive review was necessary. In January 2003, The Hartford announced a comprehensive ground up study of its asbestos related exposures, and expects the study to be completed by the second quarter 2003. This study will accomplish three objectives: (1) provide a ground up framework to evaluate the Companys overall asbestos exposure, (2) accumulate the detailed information necessary to provide even more detailed disclosures of the components of asbestos reserves, and (3) evaluate the Companys exposures in relation to current reserve levels. 45 INVESTMENTS General The Hartfords investment portfolios are divided between Life and Property & Casualty. The investment portfolios are managed based on the underlying characteristics and nature of each operations respective liabilities and within established risk parameters. (For a further discussion of The Hartfords approach to managing risks, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section.) The investment portfolios of Life and Property & Casualty are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company ("HIMCO"), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Hartford. HIMCO is responsible for monitoring and managing the asset/liability profile, establishing investment objectives and guidelines and determining, within specified risk tolerances and investment guidelines, the appropriate asset allocation, duration, convexity and other characteristics of the portfolios. Security selection and monitoring are performed by asset class specialists working within dedicated portfolio management teams. Return on general account invested assets is an important element of The Hartfords financial results. Significant fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could weaken the Companys financial condition or its results of operations. Net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 19% of the Companys consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the Companys return on, and the fair value of, fixed maturity investments, which comprised approximately 90% and 86% of the fair value of its invested assets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other events beyond the Companys control could also adversely impact the fair value of these investments. Specifically, a downgrade of an issuers credit rating or default of payment by an issuer could reduce the Companys investment return. The Company also invests in unaffiliated limited partnership arrangements in order to further diversify its investment portfolio. These limited partnerships represent approximately 2% and 3% of the fair value of its invested assets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Limited partnerships are typically less liquid than direct investments in fixed income or equity investments. Market volatility and other factors beyond the Companys control can adversely affect the value of these investments. Because the Company is a limited partner, its ability to control the timing or the realization of the related investment income is restricted. A decrease in the fair value of any investment that is deemed other than temporary would result in the Companys recognition of a realized loss in its financial results prior to the actual sale of the investment. (For a further discussion, see the Companys discussion of evaluation of other than temporary impairment in Critical Accounting Estimates under "Valuation of Investments and Derivative Instruments".) LIFE The primary investment objective of Lifes general account is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets and the generation of sufficient liquidity relative to that of corporate and policyholder obligations, as discussed in the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk Life Interest Rate Risk". The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 4.8 and 4.9 as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Duration is defined as the approximate percentage change in market price of the portfolio for a 100 basis point change in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the fair value of the portfolio would be expected to decrease by approximately 4.8% and 4.9% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The following table identifies the invested assets by type held in the general account as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. COMPOSITION OF INVESTED ASSETS 2002 2001 AMOUNT PERCENT AMOUNT PERCENT Fixed maturities, at fair value $ 29,377 86.7% $ 23,301 82.1% Equity securities, at fair value 458 1.3% 428 1.5% Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,934 8.7% 3,317 11.7% Limited partnerships, at fair value 519 1.5% 811 2.9% Other investments 603 1.8% 520 1.8% TOTAL INVESTMENTS $ 33,891 100.0% $ 28,377 100.0% During 2002, fixed maturity investments increased 26% primarily due to increased operating cash flows, transfers into the general account from the variable annuity separate account and an increase in fair value due to a lower interest rate environment. Limited partnerships decreased $292, or 36%, due to redemptions and a decision to reallocate funds to other asset classes. The following table identifies, by type, the fixed maturity securities held in the general account as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. 46 FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE 2002 2001 FAIR VALUE PERCENT FAIR VALUE PERCENT Corporate $ 14,596 49.7% $ 11,419 49.0% Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) 4,234 14.4% 3,029 13.0% Asset backed securities (ABS) 3,954 13.5% 3,427 14.7% Municipal tax exempt 2,000 6.8% 1,565 6.7% Mortgage backed securities (MBS) agency 1,851 6.3% 981 4.2% Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO) 691 2.4% 767 3.3% Government/Government agencies Foreign 526 1.8% 390 1.7% Government/Government agencies United States 360 1.2% 374 1.6% Municipal taxable 31 0.1% 47 0.2% Short term 1,100 3.7% 1,245 5.3% Redeemable preferred stock 34 0.1% 57 0.3% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 29,377 100.0% $ 23,301 100.0% There were no material changes in asset allocation during 2002 and 2001. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, 18% and 21%, respectively, of Lifes fixed maturities were invested in private placement securities (including 11% and 12% of Rule 144A offerings as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively). Private placement securities are generally less liquid than public securities. However, private placements generally have covenants designed to compensate for liquidity risk. Most of the private placement securities in the Life operations portfolio are rated by nationally recognized rating agencies. (For further discussion of the Companys investment credit policies, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Credit Risk".) INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table summarizes Lifes investment results. (before tax) 2002 2001 2000 Net investment income excluding policy loan income $ 1,604 $ 1,472 $ 1,284 Policy loan income 254 307 308 Net investment income total $ 1,858 $ 1,779 $ 1,592 Yield on average invested assets [1] 6.2% 7.0% 7.0% Net realized capital losses $ (317) $ (133) $ (88) [1] Represents net investment income (excluding net realized capital losses) divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed maturities at amortized cost). 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Net investment income, excluding policy loan income, increased $132, or 9%. The increase was primarily due to income earned on the previously discussed higher invested asset base partially offset by $36 lower income on limited partnerships and the impact of lower interest rates on new investment purchases. Yields on average invested assets decreased as a result of lower rates on new investment purchases, decreased policy loan income and decreased income on limited partnerships. Included in 2002 net realized capital losses were write downs for other than temporary impairments on primarily corporate and asset backed fixed maturities of $363. Write downs on corporate fixed maturities totaled $185 and included impairments in the communications and technology sector of $142 (including a $74 loss related to securities issued by WorldCom Corporation) and the utilities sector of $32. Write downs on asset backed securities totaled $167 and included impairments of securities backed by aircraft lease receivables of $73, corporate debt of $35, manufactured housing receivables of $16, mutual fund fee receivables of $16 and on various other asset backed securities totaling $27. Also included in 2002 net realized capital losses were write downs for other than temporary impairments on equity securities of $17. These losses were partially offset by gains from the sale of fixed maturity securities. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Net investment income, excluding policy loan income, increased $188, or 15%. The increase was primarily due to income earned on the higher asset base of fixed maturity investments, partially offset by lower yields on fixed maturities in the third and fourth quarters of 2001. Yields on overall average invested assets were flat. Included in 2001 net realized capital losses were write downs for other than temporary impairments on primarily corporate and asset backed fixed maturities of $105. Write downs on corporate securities totaled $63 and included impairments in the utilities sector of $37 and the communications and technology sector of $17. Write downs on corporate fixed maturities in the utilities sector were on securities issued by Enron Corporation. Write downs on asset backed securities totaled $31 and included impairments of securities backed by corporate debt of $14 and on various other asset backed securities totaling $17. Also included in net realized capital losses is a $35 loss recognized on the sale of the Companys interest in an Argentine insurance joint venture, in addition to losses associated with the credit deterioration of certain investments in which the Company has an indirect economic interest. These losses were partially offset by gains from the sale of fixed maturities. 47 SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS Separate account products are those for which a separate investment and liability account is maintained on behalf of the policyholder. The Companys separate accounts reflect two categories of risk assumption: non guaranteed separate accounts totaling $95.6 billion and $104.6 billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, wherein the policyholder assumes substantially all the risk and reward; and guaranteed separate accounts totaling $11.5 billion and $10.1 billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, wherein The Hartford contractually guarantees either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder. Guaranteed separate account products primarily consist of modified guaranteed individual annuities and modified guaranteed life insurance and generally include market value adjustment features and surrender charges to mitigate the risk of disintermediation. The primary investment objective of guaranteed separate accounts is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets relative to that of policyholder obligations, as discussed in the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk Life Interest Rate Risk." Investment objectives for non guaranteed separate accounts vary by fund account type, as outlined in the applicable fund prospectus or separate account plan of operations. Non guaranteed separate account products include variable annuities, variable life insurance contracts and variable COLI. PROPERTY & CASUALTY The investment objective for the majority of Property & Casualty is to maximize economic value while generating after tax income and sufficient liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder obligations. For Property & Casualtys Other Operations segment, the investment objective is to ensure the full and timely payment of all liabilities. Property & Casualtys investment strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs, regulatory requirements and tax considerations. The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 4.7 as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. Duration is defined as the approximate percentage change in the market value of the portfolio for a 100 basis point change in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the fair value of the portfolio would be expected to decrease by approximately 4.7%. The following table identifies the invested assets by type held as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. COMPOSITION OF INVESTED ASSETS 2002 2001 AMOUNT PERCENT AMOUNT PERCENT Fixed maturities, at fair value $ 19,446 94.5% $ 16,742 91.5% Equity securities, at fair value 459 2.2% 921 5.0% Limited partnerships, at fair value 362 1.8% 561 3.0% Other investments 306 1.5% 85 0.5% TOTAL INVESTMENTS $ 20,573 100.0% $ 18,309 100.0% During 2002, fixed maturity investments increased 16% due to the investment of increased operating cash flows and an increase in fair value due to a lower interest rate environment. Total equity securities decreased 50% primarily due to the sale of foreign and domestic equity holdings and declines in domestic equity market values. Limited partnerships decreased $199, or 35%, due to redemptions. Other investments increased due to the purchase of a corporate owned life insurance contract and increased investment in mortgage loans. The following table identifies, by type, the fixed maturity securities held as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE 2002 2001 FAIR VALUE PERCENT FAIR VALUE PERCENT Municipal tax exempt $ 8,846 45.5% $ 8,401 50.2% Corporate 5,459 28.0% 4,179 25.0% Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) 1,573 8.1% 1,145 6.8% Asset backed securities (ABS) 731 3.8% 717 4.3% Government/Government agencies Foreign 1,088 5.6% 613 3.6% Mortgage backed securities (MBS) agency 522 2.7% 381 2.3% Government/Government agencies United States 124 0.6% 201 1.2% Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO) 49 0.3% 97 0.6% Municipal taxable 52 0.3% 47 0.3% Short term 934 4.8% 862 5.1% Redeemable preferred stock 68 0.3% 99 0.6% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 19,446 100.0% $ 16,742 100.0% 48 There were no material changes in asset allocation during 2002 and 2001. INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table below summarizes Property & Casualtys investment results. 2002 2001 2000 Net investment income, before tax $ 1,075 $ 1,053 $ 1,072 Net investment income, after tax [1] $ 833 $ 819 $ 836 Yield on average invested assets, before tax [2] 5.8% 6.1% 6.2% Yield on average invested assets, after tax [1] [2] 4.5% 4.7% 4.9% Net realized capital gains (losses), before tax $ (83) $ (103) $ 234 [1] Due to the significant holdings in tax exempt investments, after tax net investment income and yield are included. [2] Represents net investment income (losses) (excluding net realized capital gains (losses)) divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed maturities at amortized cost). 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Both before and after tax net investment income increased 2% compared to the prior year as increased operating cash flow resulted in higher investment income on the higher invested asset base. Yields on average invested assets declined due to the lower interest rate environment. Net realized capital losses were $83 compared to $103 for the prior year. Included in 2002 net realized capital losses were write downs for other than temporary impairments on primarily corporate and asset backed fixed maturities of $152. Write downs on corporate securities totaled $109 (including a $36 loss related to securities issued by WorldCom Corporation) and included impairments in the communications and technology sector of $91 and the utilities sector of $11. Write downs on asset backed securities totaled $40 and included impairments of securities backed by corporate debt of $12, aircraft lease receivables of $11, manufactured housing receivables of $8 and on various other asset backed securities totaling $9. Also included in 2002 net realized capital losses were write downs for other than temporary impairments on equity securities of $47. These losses were partially offset by gains from the sale of fixed maturity and equity securities. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 Both before and after tax net investment income decreased 2% compared to the prior year. The decreases were primarily due to a reduction in investment income resulting from the sales of Zwolsche and Hartford Seguros, partially offset by higher income on taxable fixed maturities in the North American Property & Casualty operations. Yields on average invested assets declined slightly due to the lower interest rate environment. Net realized capital losses were $103 compared to net realized capital gains of $234 for the prior year. The 2001 net realized capital losses included write downs for other than temporary impairments on primarily corporate and asset backed fixed maturities of $61. Write downs on corporate securities totaled $39 and included impairments in the communications sector of $17 and the utilities sector of $16. Write downs on corporate fixed maturities in the utilities sector were all on securities issued by Enron Corporation. Write downs on asset backed securities totaled $22 and included impairments of securities backed by corporate debt of $9 and on various other asset backed securities totaling $13. The 2001 net realized capital losses also included write downs for other than temporary impairments of $30 on equities and other invested assets. An additional $7 of losses were sustained on sales of Enron Corporation common stock. Also included in 2001 net realized capital losses were losses generated from the sales of international subsidiaries of $54, in addition to losses associated with the credit deterioration of certain investments in which the Company has an indirect economic interest. These losses were partially offset by gains from the sale of fixed maturities. CORPORATE As of December 31, 2002 and 2001 Corporate held $66 and $3, respectively, of short term fixed maturity investments. These investments earned $2 of income in 2002. In connection with The HLI Repurchase, the carrying value of the purchased fixed maturity security investments was adjusted to fair market value as of the date of the repurchase. This adjustment was reported in Corporate. The amortization of the adjustment to the fixed maturity security investments carrying values is reported in Corporates net investment income. The total amount of before tax amortization for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 was $18. 49 CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT The Hartford has a disciplined approach to managing risks associated with its capital markets and asset/liability management activities. Investment portfolio management is organized to focus investment management expertise on specific classes of investments, while asset/liability management is the responsibility of dedicated risk management units supporting Life, including guaranteed separate accounts, and Property & Casualty operations. Derivative instruments are utilized in compliance with established Company policy and regulatory requirements and are monitored internally and reviewed by senior management. The Company is exposed to two primary sources of investment and asset/liability management risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the ability of an obligor or counterparty to make timely payments of principal and or interest, and market risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates, securities prices, market indices, yield curves or currency exchange rates. The Company does not hold any financial instruments purchased for trading purposes. CREDIT RISK The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit quality of obligors and counterparties, limit credit concentrations, encourage diversification and require frequent creditworthiness reviews. Investment activity, including setting of policy and defining acceptable risk levels, is subject to regular review and approval by senior management and by the Companys Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company invests primarily in securities which are rated investment grade and has established exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures for all credit risks including borrower, issuer and counterparty. Creditworthiness of specific obligors is determined by an internal credit evaluation supplemented by consideration of external determinants of creditworthiness, typically ratings assigned by nationally recognized ratings agencies. Obligor, asset sector and industry concentrations are subject to established limits and monitored on a regular basis. The Hartford is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Companys stockholders equity. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Companys derivative counterparty exposure policy establishes market based credit limits, favors long term financial stability and creditworthiness and typically requires credit enhancement/credit risk reducing agreements. Credit risk is measured as the amount owed to the Company based on current market conditions and potential payment obligations between the Company and its counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified weekly and netted, and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent the current value of derivatives exceeds exposure policy thresholds. The Company periodically enters into swap agreements in which the Company assumes credit exposure from a single entity, referenced index or asset pool. Total return swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using the agreed upon index and notional principal amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value. Credit default swaps involve a transfer of credit risk from one party to another in exchange for periodic payments. One party to the contract will make a payment based on an agreed upon rate and a notional amount. The second party, who assumes credit exposures, will only make a payment when there is a credit event, and such payment will be equal to the notional value of the swap contract, and in return, the second party will receive the debt obligation of the first party. A credit event is generally defined as default on contractually obligated interest or principal payment or restructure. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001 the notional value of total return and credit default swaps totaled $1.0 billion and $686, respectively, and the swap fair value totaled $(78) and $(105), respectively. The following tables identify fixed maturity securities for Life, including guaranteed separate accounts, and Property & Casualty by credit quality. The ratings referenced in the tables are based on the ratings of a nationally recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based on the Companys internal analysis of such securities. In addition, an aging of the gross unrealized loss position is presented for fixed maturity and equity securities. LIFE As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, over 94% and 96%, respectively, of the fixed maturity portfolio was invested in securities rated investment grade (BBB and above). During 2002, the percentage of BB and below rated fixed maturity investments increased due to increased downgrades of corporate and asset backed securities. 50 FIXED MATURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY 2002 2001 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR COST FAIR VALUE VALUE COST FAIR VALUE VALUE United States Government/Government agencies $ 3,596 $ 3,737 9.2% $ 2,573 $ 2,639 8.0% AAA 6,519 6,960 17.2% 4,915 5,070 15.3% AA 4,161 4,396 10.9% 3,570 3,644 11.0% A 11,745 12,467 30.8% 11,330 11,528 34.8% BBB 9,211 9,665 23.9% 7,611 7,644 23.1% BB & below 2,148 2,084 5.2% 1,214 1,148 3.4% Short term 1,153 1,153 2.8% 1,470 1,470 4.4% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 38,533 $ 40,462 100.0% $ 32,683 $ 33,143 100.0% Total general account fixed maturities 27,982 29,377 72.6% 23,010 23,301 70.3% Total guaranteed separate account fixed maturities 10,551 11,085 27.4% 9,673 9,842 29.7% The Companys total and below investment grade ("BIG") fixed maturity and equity securities held as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 that were in an unrealized loss position are presented in the tables below by length of time the security was in an unrealized loss position. UNREALIZED LOSS AGING AT DECEMBER 31, 2002 TOTAL SECURITIES BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 1,532 $ 1,459 $ (73) $ 162 $ 130 $ (32) Greater than three months to six months 1,294 1,239 (55) 208 185 (23) Greater than six months to nine months 568 508 (60) 175 145 (30) Greater than nine months to twelve months 1,334 1,264 (70) 330 293 (37) Greater than twelve months 2,135 1,927 (208) 501 431 (70) TOTAL $ 6,863 $ 6,397 $(466) $ 1,376 $ 1,184 $ (192) The total securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of corporate and asset backed securities. The significant corporate security industry sectors of banking and financial services, utilities, technology and communications and airlines comprised 20%, 13%, 13% and 3%, respectively, of the greater than six months unrealized loss amount. Asset backed securities comprised 33% of the greater than six month unrealized loss amount and included securities backed by corporate debt, aircraft lease receivables and credit card receivables. At December 31, 2002, the Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss in excess of 4% of total unrealized losses. The total unrealized loss position of $(466) consisted of $(344) in general account losses and $(122) in guaranteed separate account losses. The BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of corporate securities in the technology and communications and utilities sectors as well as asset backed securities backed by corporate debt, equipment loans and credit card receivables. The technology and communications and utilities sectors along with diversified equity mutual funds and asset backed securities comprised 26%, 22%, 18% and 15%, respectively, of the BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months at December 31, 2002. The total unrealized loss position of BIG and equity securities of $(192) consisted of $(157) in general account losses and $(35) in guaranteed separate account losses. UNREALIZED LOSS AGING AT DECEMBER 31, 2001 TOTAL SECURITIES BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 5,075 $ 4,932 $ (143) $ 269 $ 242 $ (27) Greater than three months to six months 755 686 (69) 99 77 (22) Greater than six months to nine months 487 464 (23) 63 58 (5) Greater than nine months to twelve months 2,128 2,051 (77) 245 217 (28) Greater than twelve months 2,113 1,949 (164) 323 277 (46) TOTAL $ 10,558 $ 10,082 $ (476) $ 999 $ 871 $ (128) 51 The total securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2001 primarily consisted of corporate and asset backed securities. The significant corporate security industry sectors that were in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months included banking and financial services of 22%. The communications and technology, utilities and petroleum sectors comprised 13%, 12% and 4%, respectively of the total securities that were in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months at December 31, 2001. Asset backed securities comprised 19% of the greater than six month unrealized loss amount, and included securities backed by corporate debt, franchise loans, aircraft lease receivables, credit card receivables, and manufactured housing receivables. At December 31, 2001, the Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss in excess of 3% of total unrealized losses. The total unrealized loss position of $(476) consisted of $(370) in general account losses and $(106) in guaranteed separate account losses. The BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2001 primarily consisted of corporate securities in the utilities and technology and communications sectors as well as asset backed securities backed primarily by manufactured housing receivables, corporate debt and equipment lease receivables. Diversified equity mutual funds, asset backed securities, technology and communications sector securities and utilities sector securities comprised 28%, 21%, 18% and 14%, respectively, of the BIG securities in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months at December 31, 2001. The total unrealized loss position of BIG and equity securities of $(128) consisted of $(90) in general account losses and $(38) in guaranteed separate account losses. As part of the Companys ongoing monitoring process by a committee of investment and accounting professionals, the Company has reviewed these securities and concluded that there were no additional other than temporary impairments as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. Due to the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms and their continued expectation to do so, as well as the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition, the Company believes that the prices of the securities in the sectors identified above, were temporarily depressed primarily as a result of a market dislocation and generally poor cyclical economic conditions and sentiment. (See the Critical Accounting Estimates section in the MD&A for the factors considered in evaluating other than temporary impairments.) The evaluation for other than temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties in the determination of whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers financial condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. In addition, for securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (e.g. asset backed securities), projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral. PROPERTY & CASUALTY As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, over 94% of the fixed maturity portfolio was invested in securities rated investment grade. During 2002, the percentage of BB and below rated fixed maturity investments increased due to increased downgrades of corporate and asset backed securities. FIXED MATURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY 2002 2001 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR COST FAIR VALUE VALUE COST FAIR VALUE VALUE United States Government/Government agencies $ 638 $ 660 3.4% $ 628 $ 639 3.8% AAA 6,825 7,398 38.1% 5,888 6,160 36.8% AA 3,146 3,388 17.4% 3,012 3,126 18.7% A 3,337 3,567 18.3% 3,092 3,193 19.1% BBB 2,320 2,456 12.6% 1,844 1,876 11.2% BB & below 1,035 1,043 5.4% 880 886 5.3% Short term 934 934 4.8% 862 862 5.1% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 18,235 $ 19,446 100.0% $ 16,206 $ 16,742 100.0% The total and BIG fixed maturity and equity securities held as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 that were in an unrealized loss position are presented in the tables below by length of time the security was in an unrealized loss position. 52 UNREALIZED LOSS AGING AT DECEMBER 31, 2002 TOTAL SECURITIES BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 510 $ 490 $ (20) $ 112 $ 99 $ (13) Greater than three months to six months 248 224 (24) 100 82 (18) Greater than six months to nine months 135 103 (32) 91 68 (23) Greater than nine months to twelve months 486 455 (31) 246 222 (24) Greater than twelve months 216 176 (40) 109 86 (23) TOTAL $ 1,595 $ 1,448 $(147) $ 658 $ 557 $ (101) The total securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of corporate and asset backed securities. The significant corporate security industry sectors of technology and communications, banking and financial services, utilities and airlines comprised 22%, 8%, 12% and 6%, respectively, of the greater than six months unrealized loss amount. Asset backed securities comprised 17% of the greater than six month unrealized loss amount and include securities backed by corporate debt, aircraft lease receivables, home equity loans and credit card receivables. At December 31, 2002, the Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss in excess of 6% of total unrealized losses. The BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of corporate securities in the technology and communications and utilities sectors as well as asset backed securities backed by corporate debt and aircraft lease receivables. The technology and communications, utilities and airline sectors along with the asset backed securities comprised 33%, 14%, 6% and 4%, respectively, of the BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months at December 31, 2002. UNREALIZED LOSS AGING AT DECEMBER 31, 2001 TOTAL SECURITIES BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 1,879 $ 1,829 $ (50) $ 182 $ 164 $ (18) Greater than three months to six months 261 218 (43) 140 103 (37) Greater than six months to nine months 89 74 (15) 57 46 (11) Greater than nine months to twelve months 853 784 (69) 343 286 (57) Greater than twelve months 311 264 (47) 72 49 (23) TOTAL $ 3,393 $ 3,169 $(224) $ 794 $ 648 $ (146) The total securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2001 primarily consisted of corporate and asset backed securities. The significant corporate security industry sectors of communications and technology, utilities and banking and financial services comprised 31%, 16% and 8%, respectively, of the greater than six months unrealized loss amount. Asset backed securities comprised 14% of the greater than six month unrealized loss amount and included securities backed by corporate debt and manufactured housing receivables. The Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss in excess of 3% of total unrealized losses at December 31, 2002. The BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months as of December 31, 2001 primarily consisted of corporate securities in the utilities and technology and communications sectors as well as asset backed securities backed by manufactured housing receivables, corporate debt and equipment lease receivables. The technology and communications, asset backed, utilities and banking and financial services sector securities comprised 41%, 11%, 18% and 8%, respectively, of the BIG and equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months at December 31, 2001. As part of the Companys ongoing monitoring process by a committee of investment and accounting professionals, the Company has reviewed these securities and concluded that there were no additional other than temporary impairments as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. Due to the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms and their continued expectation to do so, as well as the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition, the Company believes that the prices of the securities in the sectors identified above, were temporarily depressed primarily as a result of a market dislocation and generally poor cyclical economic conditions and sentiment. (See the Critical Accounting Estimates section in the MD&A for the factors considered in evaluating other than temporary impairments.) The evaluation for other than temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties in the determination of whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers financial condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. In addition, for securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (e.g. asset backed securities), projections of expected 53 future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral pools. MARKET RISK The Hartford has material exposure to both interest rate and equity market risk. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. The Hartford has several objectives in managing market risk associated with Life and Property & Casualty. Life is responsible for maximizing after tax returns within acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets and the generation of sufficient liquidity to that of corporate and policyholder obligations. Lifes fixed maturity portfolios have material market exposure to interest rate risk. Property & Casualty attempts to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after tax income and sufficient liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder obligations. Property & Casualty has material exposure to interest rate and equity market risk. The Company continually monitors these exposures and makes portfolio adjustments to manage these risks within established limits. Downward movement in market interest rates during 2002 resulted in a significant increase in the unrealized appreciation of the fixed maturity security portfolio from 2001. However, The Hartfords asset allocation and its exposure to market risk as of December 31, 2002 have not changed materially from its position at December 31, 2001. The Company is subject to the risk of a change in financial condition due to the effect of interest rate and equity market fluctuations on the calculation of the Companys minimum pension liabilities. As discussed in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section, in the fourth quarter 2002, the Company recorded a minimum pension liability charge directly to stockholders equity of $364, after tax. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Hartford utilizes a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards and exchange traded futures and options, in compliance with Company policy and regulatory requirements in order to achieve one of four Company approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange rate volatility; to manage liquidity; to control transaction costs; or to enter into income enhancement and replication transactions. Interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using the agreed upon rates and notional principal amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value. Foreign currency swaps exchange an initial principal amount in two currencies, agreeing to re exchange the currencies at a future date, at an agreed exchange rate. There is also periodic exchange of payments at specified intervals calculated using the agreed upon rates and exchanged principal amounts. Interest rate cap and floor contracts entitle the purchaser to receive from the issuer at specified dates, the amount, if any, by which a specified market rate exceeds the cap strike rate or falls below the floor strike rate, applied to a notional principal amount. A premium payment is made by the purchaser of the contract at its inception, and no principal payments are exchanged. Forward contracts are customized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Financial futures are standardized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges. Margin requirements for futures are met by pledging securities, and changes in the futures contract values are settled daily in cash. Option contracts grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer a financial instrument at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. Derivative activities are monitored by an internal compliance unit, reviewed frequently by senior management and reported to the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated and are not reflective of credit risk. Notional amounts pertaining to derivative instruments used in the management of market risk for both general and guaranteed separate accounts at December 31, 2002 and 2001 totaled $13.2 billion and $10.5 billion, respectively. The following discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within Life and Property & Casualty. LIFE Interest Rate Risk Lifes general account and guaranteed separate account exposure to interest rate risk relates to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can potentially impact Lifes profitability. In certain scenarios where interest rates are volatile, Life could be exposed to disintermediation risk and reduction in net interest rate spread or profit margins. Lifes general account and guaranteed separate account investment portfolios primarily consist of investment grade, fixed maturity securities, including corporate bonds, asset backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, tax exempt municipal securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. The fair value of these and Lifes other invested assets fluctuates depending on the interest rate environment and other general economic conditions. During periods of declining interest rates, paydowns on mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations increase as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the rate of prepayments generally 54 declines, exposing the Company to the possibility of asset/liability cash flow and yield mismatch. (For further discussion of the Companys risk management techniques to manage this market risk, see the "Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk" discussed below.) As described above, Life holds a significant fixed maturity portfolio that includes both fixed and variable rate securities. The following table reflects the principal amounts of Lifes general and guaranteed separate accounts fixed and variable rate fixed maturity portfolios, along with the respective weighted average coupons by estimated maturity year at December 31, 2002. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2001. Expected maturities differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment provisions. The weighted average coupon ("WAC") on variable rate securities is based on spot rates as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and is primarily based on London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). Callable bonds and notes are distributed to either call dates or maturity, depending on which date produces the most conservative yield. Asset backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities are distributed based on estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived from prepayment speeds previously experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the underlying collateral. Actual prepayment experience may vary from these estimates. Financial instruments with certain leverage features have been included in each of the fixed maturity categories. These instruments have not been separately displayed because they were immaterial to the Life investment portfolio. 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL CALLABLE BONDS Fixed Rate Par value $ 11 $ 25 $ 123 $ 24 $ 24 $ 3,304 $ 3,511 $ 2,924 WAC 6.6% 7.2% 4.6% 7.6% 8.1% 4.0% 4.1% 4.0% Fair value $ 3,187 $ 2,445 Variable Rate Par value $ 1 $ 6 $ 25 $ 9 $ 6 $ 834 $ 881 $ 1,065 WAC 3.7% 2.5% 3.0% 3.3% 4.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.4% Fair value $ 804 $ 972 BONDS OTHER Fixed Rate Par value $ 2,691 $ 1,397 $ 1,889 $ 2,026 $ 1,725 $ 10,859 $ 20,587 $ 18,245 WAC 5.7% 6.0% 7.2% 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% 6.2% Fair value $ 20,990 $ 17,424 Variable Rate Par value $ 273 $ 66 $ 259 $ 113 $ 13 $ 355 $ 1,079 $ 1,047 WAC 3.1% 3.1% 4.1% 2.1% 7.2% 3.6% 3.5% 4.9% Fair value $ 952 $ 947 ASSET BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 371 $ 461 $ 541 $ 255 $ 137 $ 718 $ 2,483 $ 2,252 WAC 6.8% 6.3% 5.7% 6.1% 6.2% 7.1% 6.4% 6.9% Fair value $ 2,458 $ 2,234 Variable Rate Par value $ 162 $ 314 $ 369 $ 378 $ 361 $ 1,494 $ 3,078 $ 2,396 WAC 2.1% 2.2% 2.3% 2.3% 2.4% 2.4% 2.3% 2.8% Fair value $ 2,884 $ 2,333 COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS Fixed Rate Par value $ 108 $ 95 $ 77 $ 71 $ 63 $ 365 $ 779 $ 968 WAC 6.3% 6.2% 6.2% 6.2% 6.2% 6.3% 6.3% 6.3% Fair value $ 813 $ 960 Variable Rate Par value $ 10 $ 13 $ 10 $ 7 $ 5 $ 46 $ 91 $ 15 WAC 2.4% 2.5% 2.7% 3.0% 3.1% 2.3% 2.5% 6.9% Fair value $ 90 $ 16 55 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 68 $ 112 $ 114 $ 243 $ 436 $ 3,073 $ 4,046 $ 3,018 WAC 6.2% 6.6% 6.5% 7.0% 6.9% 6.7% 6.7% 7.1% Fair value $ 4,494 $ 3,123 Variable Rate Par value $ 179 $ 169 $ 109 $ 84 $ 130 $ 745 $ 1,416 $ 1,501 WAC 3.5% 3.3% 4.2% 6.9% 5.5% 7.2% 5.9% 5.8% Fair value $ 1,494 $ 1,498 MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 303 $ 356 $ 289 $ 197 $ 141 $ 867 $ 2,153 $ 1,168 WAC 6.7% 6.7% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.8% Fair value $ 2,260 $ 1,189 Variable Rate Par value $ 2 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 4 $ 15 $ 36 $ 2 WAC 2.5% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 5.4% Fair value $ 36 $ 2 The table below provides information as of December 31, 2002 on debt obligations and trust preferred securities and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2001. 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT Fixed Rate Amount $ $ 200 $ $ $ 200 $ 725 $ 1,125 $ 1,050 Weighted average interest rate 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 7.1% 7.3% Fair value $ 1,217 $ 1,118 TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES [1] Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ $ $ $ 450 $ 450 $ 450 Weighted average interest rate 7.4% 7.4% 7.4% Fair value $ 464 $ 461 [1] Represents Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures. Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk Life employs several risk management tools to quantify and manage market risk arising from their investments and interest sensitive liabilities. For certain portfolios, management monitors the changes in present value between assets and liabilities resulting from various interest rate scenarios using integrated asset/liability measurement systems and a proprietary system that simulates the impacts of parallel and non parallel yield curve shifts. Based on this current and prospective information, management implements risk reducing techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities. Derivatives play an important role in facilitating the management of interest rate risk, creating opportunities to efficiently fund obligations, hedge against risks that affect the value of certain liabilities and adjust broad investment risk characteristics as a result of any significant changes in market risks. Life uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards and exchange traded financial futures and options, in order to hedge exposure primarily to interest rate risk on anticipated investment purchases or existing assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2002, notional amounts pertaining to derivatives totaled $10.0 billion ($8.3 billion related to insurance investments and $1.7 billion related to life insurance liabilities). Notional amounts pertaining to derivatives totaled $9.3 billion at December 31, 2001 ($7.6 billion related to insurance investments and $1.7 billion related to life insurance liabilities). The economic objectives and strategies for which the Company utilizes derivatives are categorized as follows: Anticipatory Hedging For certain liabilities, the Company commits to the price of the product prior to receipt of the associated premium or deposit. Anticipatory hedges are executed to offset the impact of changes in asset prices arising from interest rate changes pending the receipt of premium or deposit and the subsequent purchase of an asset. These hedges involve taking a long position (purchase) in interest rate futures or entering into an interest rate swap with duration 56 characteristics equivalent to the associated liabilities or anticipated investments. The notional amounts of anticipatory hedges as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 were $265 and $320, respectively. Liability Hedging Several products obligate the Company to credit a return to the contract holder which is indexed to a market rate. To hedge risks associated with these products, the Company enters into various derivative contracts. Interest rate swaps are used to convert the contract rate into a rate that trades in a more liquid and efficient market. This hedging strategy enables the Company to customize contract terms and conditions to customer objectives and satisfies the operations asset/liability matching policy. In addition, interest rate swaps are used to convert certain variable contract rates to different variable rates, thereby allowing them to be appropriately matched against variable rate assets. Finally, interest rate caps and option contracts are used to hedge against the risk of contract holder disintermediation in a rising interest rate environment. The notional amounts of derivatives used for liability hedging as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 were $1.7 billion. Asset Hedging To meet the various policyholder obligations and to provide cost effective, prudent investment risk diversification, the Company may combine two or more financial instruments to achieve the investment characteristics of a fixed maturity security or that match an associated liability. The use of derivative instruments in this regard effectively transfers unwanted investment risks or attributes to others. The selection of the appropriate derivative instruments depends on the investment risk, the liquidity and efficiency of the market and the asset and liability characteristics. The notional amounts of asset hedges as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 were $7.2 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively. Portfolio Hedging The Company periodically compares the duration and convexity of its portfolios of assets to its corresponding liabilities and enters into portfolio hedges to reduce any difference to desired levels. Portfolio hedges reduce the duration and convexity mismatch between assets and liabilities and offset the potential impact to cash flows caused by changes in interest rates. The notional amounts of portfolio hedges as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 were $910 and $1.1 billion, respectively. The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2002 with comparative totals for December 31, 2001 on derivative instruments used in accordance with the aforementioned hedging strategies. For interest rate swaps, caps and floors, the tables present notional amounts with weighted average pay and receive rates for swaps and weighted average strike rates for caps and floors by maturity year. For interest rate futures, the table presents contract amount and weighted average settlement price by expected maturity year. For option contracts, the table presents contract amount by expected maturity year. 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE SWAPS [1] 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Pay Fixed/Receive Variable Notional value $ 295 $ 85 $ 126 $ 36 $ 140 $ 491 $ 1,173 $ 937 Weighted average pay rate 4.2% 3.5% 7.5% 6.7% 5.1% 6.7% 5.7% 6.5% Weighted average receive rate 1.5% 1.4% 1.5% 1.8% 1.4% 1.6% 1.6% 2.2% Fair value $ (132) $ (68) Pay Variable/Receive Fixed Notional value $ 473 $ 1,369 $ 1,045 $ 739 $ 664 $ 1,583 $ 5,873 $ 5,045 Weighted average pay rate 1.4% 1.6% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 2.1% Weighted average receive rate 5.6% 5.5% 5.7% 5.5% 5.2% 5.3% 5.5% 5.8% Fair value $ 514 $ 193 Pay Variable/Receive Different Variable Notional value $ 2 $ 141 $ 11 $ $ 50 $ $ 204 $ 159 Weighted average pay rate 1.7% 2.4% 3.7% 1.4% 2.2% 3.2% Weighted average receive rate [2] 1.4% 2.8% (11.0)% 2.6% 2.0% 4.4% Fair value $ 2 $ 1 [1] Swap agreements in which the Company assumes credit exposure from a single entity, referenced index or asset pool are not included above, rather they are included in the credit risk discussion. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, these swaps had a notional value of $497 and $230, respectively, and a fair value of $(41) and $(51), respectively. Also, swap agreements that reduce foreign currency exposure in certain fixed maturity investments are not included above, rather they are included in the foreign currency risk discussion. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, these swaps had a notional value of $794 and $435, respectively, and a fair value of $(67) and $6, respectively. [2] Negative weighted average receive rate in 2005 results when payments are required on both sides of an index swap. 57 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE CAPS LIBOR BASED 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Purchased Notional value $ 54 $ $ 77 $ $ 30 $ $ 161 $ 171 Weighted average strike rate (8.0 9.9%) 8.5% 8.4% 8.3% 8.4% 8.5% Fair value $ $ 1 Notional value $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 19 Weighted average strike rate (10.1%) 10.1% Fair value $ $ 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE CAPS CMT BASED [1] 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Purchased Notional value $ 250 $ $ 250 $ $ $ $ 500 $ 500 Weighted average strike rate (8.7%) 8.7% 8.7% 8.7% 8.7% Fair value $ $ 3 [1] CMT represents the Constant Maturity Treasury Rate. 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE FLOORS LIBOR BASED 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Purchased Notional value $ $ 27 $ $ $ $ $ 27 $ 27 Weighted average strike rate (7.9%) 7.9% 7.9% 7.9% Fair value $ 3 $ 3 Issued Notional value $ 54 $ 34 $ 77 $ $ $ $ 165 $ 193 Weighted average strike rate (4.0 5.9%) 5.4% 5.3% 5.3% 5.3% 5.3% Fair value $ (9) $ (8) Notional value $ $ 27 $ $ $ $ $ 27 $ 27 Weighted average strike rate (7.8%) 7.8% 7.8% 7.8% Fair value $ (3) $ (3) 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE FLOORS CMT BASED [1] 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Purchased Notional value $ 150 $ $ $ $ $ $ 150 $ 150 Weighted average strike rate (5.5%) 5.5% 5.5% 5.5% Fair value $ 1 $ 5 [1] CMT represents the Constant Maturity Treasury Rate. 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE FUTURES 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Long Contract amount/notional $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 266 Weighted average settlement price $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 105 Short Contract amount/notional $ 11 $ $ $ $ $ $ 11 $ 25 Weighted average settlement price $ 114 $ $ $ $ $ $ 114 $ 105 2002 2001 OPTION CONTRACTS 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Long Contract amount/notional $ 83 $ 88 $ 45 $ 324 $ 32 $ 78 $ 650 $ 723 Fair value $ 18 $ 28 Short Contract amount/notional $ 172 $ 457 $ 189 $ 225 $ 25 $ 30 $ 1,098 $ 1,056 Fair value $ (37) $ (61) 58 Currency Exchange Risk Currency exchange risk exists with respect to investments in non US dollar denominated securities. The fair value of these fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was $1.2 billion and $494, respectively. In order to manage a portion of these currency exposures, the Company enters into foreign currency swaps to hedge the variability in cash flow associated with certain foreign denominated securities. These foreign currency swap agreements are structured to match the foreign currency cash flows of the hedged foreign denominated securities. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the foreign currency swaps had a notional value of $794 and $435, respectively, and fair value of $(67) and $6, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company entered into a costless collar strategy to temporarily mitigate a portion of its residual currency risk in foreign denominated securities. Accordingly, the Company purchased foreign put options and wrote foreign call options expiring in January 2003. At December 31, 2002 the foreign put and call options had a notional value of $469 and fair value of $(3). The Company had no foreign put or call options at December 31, 2001. Life Product Liability Characteristics Lifes product liabilities, other than non guaranteed separate accounts, include accumulation vehicles such as fixed and variable annuities, other investment and universal life type contracts and other insurance products such as long term disability and term life insurance. Asset Accumulation Vehicles While interest rate risk associated with these insurance products has been reduced through the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, the primary risk associated with these products is that the spread between investment return and credited rate may not be sufficient to earn targeted returns. Fixed Rate Products in this category require the payment of a fixed rate for a certain period of time. The cash flows are not interest sensitive because the products are written with a market value adjustment feature and the liabilities have protection against the early withdrawal of funds through surrender charges. Product examples include fixed rate annuities with a market value adjustment and fixed rate guaranteed investment contracts. Contract duration is dependent on the policyholders choice of guarantee period. Indexed Products in this category are similar to the fixed rate asset accumulation vehicles but require the life operations to pay a rate that is determined by an external index. The amount and or timing of cash flows will therefore vary based on the level of the particular index. The primary risks inherent in these products are similar to the fixed rate asset accumulation vehicles, with the additional risk that changes in the index may adversely affect profitability. Product examples include indexed guaranteed investment contracts with an estimated duration of up to two years. Interest Credited Products in this category credit interest to policyholders, subject to market conditions and minimum guarantees. Policyholders may surrender at book value but are subject to surrender charges for an initial period. Product examples include universal life contracts and the general account portion of Lifes variable annuity products. Liability duration is short to intermediate term. Other Insurance Products Long term Pay Out Liabilities Products in this category are long term in nature and may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity) pricing and cash flow risks. The cash flows associated with these policy liabilities are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are that the benefits will exceed expected actuarial pricing and or that the actual timing of the cash flows differ from those anticipated, resulting in an investment return lower than that assumed in pricing. Product examples include structured settlement contracts, on benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is currently receiving benefits thereon) and long term disability contracts. Contract duration is generally five to ten years. Short term Pay Out Liabilities These liabilities are short term in nature with a duration of less than one year. The primary risks associated with these products are determined by the non investment contingencies such as mortality or morbidity and the variability in the timing of the expected cash flows. Liquidity is of greater concern than for the long term pay out liabilities. Products include individual and group term life insurance contracts and short term disability contracts. Management of the duration of investments with respective policyholder obligations is an explicit objective of Lifes management strategy. The estimated cash flows of insurance policy liabilities based upon internal actuarial assumptions as of December 31, 2002 are reflected in the table below by expected maturity year. Comparative totals are included for December 31, 2001. 59 (dollars in billions) 2002 2001 DESCRIPTION [1] 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Fixed rate asset accumulation vehicles $ 1.7 $ 3.0 $ 2.6 $ 2.0 $ 1.9 $ 2.4 $ 13.6 $ 15.8 Weighted average credited rate 6.0% 6.0% 5.9% 5.6% 5.5% 5.7% 5.8% 5.9% Indexed asset accumulation vehicles $ 0.6 $ 0.1 $ $ $ $ $ 0.7 $ 0.8 Weighted average credited rate 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 6.5% Interest credited asset accumulation vehicles $ 3.3 $ 3.3 $ 3.2 $ 0.5 $ 0.5 $ 5.2 $ 16.0 $ 8.1 Weighted average credited rate 3.9% 3.9% 3.8% 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% 4.2% 5.7% Long term pay out liabilities $ 1.0 $ 0.8 $ 0.7 $ 0.5 $ 0.5 $ 5.6 $ 9.1 $ 8.6 Short term pay out liabilities $ 0.9 $ 0.1 $ $ $ $ $ 1.0 $ 1.0 [1] As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair values of Lifes investment contracts, including guaranteed separate accounts, were $32.4 billion and $26.0 billion, respectively. Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates For liabilities whose cash flows are not substantially affected by changes in interest rates ("fixed liabilities") and where investment experience is substantially absorbed by Life, the sensitivity of the net economic value (discounted present value of asset cash flows less the discounted present value of liability cash flows) of those portfolios to 100 basis point shifts in interest rates is shown in the following table. Change in Net Economic Value 2002 2001 Basis point shift 100 + 100 100 + 100 Amount $ 17 $ (51) $ 6 $ (31) Percent of liability value 0.08% (0.23)% 0.03% (0.16)% These fixed liabilities represented about 57% and 61% of Lifes general and guaranteed separate account liabilities at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The remaining liabilities generally allow Life significant flexibility to adjust credited rates to reflect actual investment experience and thereby pass through a substantial portion of actual investment experience to the policyholder. The fixed liability portfolios are managed and monitored relative to defined objectives, are analyzed regularly by management for internal risk management purposes using scenario simulation techniques and are evaluated on an annual basis, in compliance with regulatory requirements. Equity Risk The Companys Life operations are significantly influenced by changes in the equity markets. Lifes profitability depends largely on the amount of assets under management, which is primarily driven by the level of sales, equity market appreciation and depreciation and the persistency of the in force block of business. A prolonged and precipitous decline in the equity markets, as has been experienced of late, can have a significant impact on the Companys operations, as sales of variable products may decline and surrender activity may increase, as customer sentiment towards the equity market turns negative. The lower assets under management will have a negative impact on the Companys financial results, primarily due to lower fee income related to the Investment Products and Individual Life segments, where a heavy concentration of equity linked products are administered and sold. Furthermore, the Company may experience a reduction in profit margins if a significant portion of the assets held in the variable annuity separate accounts move to the general account and the Company is unable to earn an acceptable investment spread, particularly in light of the low interest rate environment and the presence of contractually guaranteed minimum interest credited rates, which for the most part are at a 3% rate. In addition, prolonged declines in the equity market may also decrease the Companys expectations of future gross profits, which are utilized to determine the amount of DAC to be amortized in a given financial statement period. A significant decrease in the Companys estimated gross profits would require the Company to accelerate the amount of DAC amortization in a given period, potentially causing a material adverse deviation in that periods net income. Although an acceleration of DAC amortization would have a negative impact on the Companys earnings, it would not affect the Companys cash flow or liquidity position. Additionally, the Investment Products segment sells variable annuity contracts that offer various guaranteed death benefits. For certain guaranteed death benefits, The Hartford pays the greater of (1) the account value at death; (2) the sum of all premium payments less prior withdrawals; or (3) the maximum anniversary value of the contract, plus any premium payments since the contract anniversary, minus any withdrawals following the contract anniversary. The Company currently reinsures a significant portion of these death benefit guarantees associated with its in force block of business. The Company currently records the death benefit costs, net of reinsurance, as they are incurred. Declines in the equity market may increase the Companys net exposure to death benefits under these contracts. The Companys total gross exposure (i.e. before reinsurance) to these guaranteed death benefits as of December 31, 2002 is $22.4 billion. Due to the fact that 82% of this amount is reinsured, the Companys net exposure is $4.1 billion. This amount is often referred to as the net amount at risk. However, the Company will only incur these guaranteed death benefit payments in the future if the policyholder has an in the money guaranteed death benefit at their time of death. In order to analyze the total costs that the Company may incur in the future related to these guaranteed death benefits, the Company performed an actuarial present value analysis. This analysis included developing a model utilizing 250 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios and best estimate assumptions related to mortality and lapse rates. A range of projected costs was developed and discounted back to the statement date utilizing the Companys cost of capital, which for this purpose was assumed to be 9.25%. Based on this analysis, the Company estimated that the present value of the retained 60 death benefit costs to be incurred in the future fell within a range of $86 to $349. This range was calculated utilizing a 95% confidence interval. The median of the 250 stochastically generated scenarios was $159. Furthermore, the Company is involved in arbitration with one of its primary reinsurers relating to policies with such death benefit guarantees written from 1994 to 1999. The arbitration involves alleged breaches under the reinsurance treaties. Although the Company believes that its position in this pending arbitration is strong, an adverse outcome could result in a decrease to the Companys statutory surplus and capital and potentially increase the death benefit costs incurred by the Company in the future. The arbitration hearing was held during the fourth quarter of 2002, but no decision has been rendered. PROPERTY & CASUALTY Interest Rate Risk The primary exposure to interest rate risk in Property & Casualty relates to its fixed maturity investments. Changes in market interest rates directly impact the market value of the fixed maturity securities. In addition, but to a lesser extent, interest rate risk exists on debt and trust preferred securities issued. Derivative instruments are used to manage interest rate risk and had a total notional amount as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 of $1.1 billion and $797, respectively. The principal amounts of the fixed and variable rate fixed maturity portfolios, along with the respective weighted average coupons by estimated maturity year at December 31, 2002, are reflected in the following table. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2001. Expected maturities differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment provisions. The WAC on variable rate securities is based on spot rates as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and is based primarily on LIBOR. Callable bonds and notes are primarily municipal bonds, and are distributed to either call dates or maturity depending on which date produces the most conservative yield. Asset backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities are distributed based on estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment speeds contained in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived from prepayment speeds previously experienced at interest rate levels projected for the underlying collateral. Actual prepayment experience may vary from these estimates. Financial instruments with certain leverage features have been included in each of the fixed maturity categories. These instruments have not been separately displayed, as they were immaterial to Property & Casualtys investment portfolio. 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL CALLABLE BONDS Fixed Rate Par value $ 9 $ 34 $ 137 $ 225 $ 280 $ 7,029 $ 7,714 $ 7,624 WAC 5.9% 5.5% 5.5% 5.4% 5.6% 5.3% 5.3% 5.3% Fair value $ 8,084 $ 7,660 Variable Rate Par value $ 1 $ 2 $ 16 $ 7 $ 2 $ 226 $ 254 $ 266 WAC 5.6% 4.3% 6.6% 3.3% 4.2% 3.9% 4.1% 5.4% Fair value $ 207 $ 214 BONDS OTHER Fixed Rate Par value $ 1,205 $ 468 $ 673 $ 774 $ 702 $ 4,111 $ 7,933 $ 6,413 WAC 4.5% 6.6% 6.9% 6.4% 6.5% 6.4% 6.3% 6.4% Fair value $ 8,132 $ 6,297 Variable Rate Par value $ 2 $ 52 $ 2 $ 7 $ 3 $ 106 $ 172 $ 268 WAC 3.0% 2.7% 3.1% 5.8% 5.1% 4.8% 4.2% 4.8% Fair value $ 148 $ 231 ASSET BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 71 $ 84 $ 102 $ 80 $ 58 $ 167 $ 562 $ 570 WAC 7.0% 6.0% 6.3% 6.4% 7.0% 7.4% 6.7% 7.2% Fair value $ 554 $ 549 Variable Rate Par value $ 3 $ 40 $ 14 $ 21 $ 15 $ 112 $ 205 $ 191 WAC 2.7% 3.0% 2.5% 2.5% 3.3% 2.3% 2.5% 3.8% Fair value $ 177 $ 168 61 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS Fixed Rate Par value $ 15 $ 7 $ 4 $ 4 $ 2 $ 11 $ 43 $ 87 WAC 6.9% 6.8% 6.6% 6.4% 6.4% 5.1% 6.3% 6.8% Fair value $ 43 $ 88 Variable Rate Par value $ 2 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ $ 5 $ 8 WAC 17.1% 16.6% 16.0% 15.5% 16.2% 15.1% Fair value $ 6 $ 9 COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 6 $ 15 $ 8 $ 34 $ 117 $ 1,005 $ 1,185 $ 707 WAC 5.9% 6.9% 6.3% 7.1% 7.0% 5.9% 6.1% 7.1% Fair value $ 1,183 $ 728 Variable Rate Par value $ 99 $ 48 $ 22 $ 20 $ 22 $ 154 $ 365 $ 410 WAC 3.4% 4.4% 7.0% 7.9% 6.7% 8.0% 6.2% 6.2% Fair value $ 390 $ 417 MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES Fixed Rate Par value $ 69 $ 87 $ 81 $ 54 $ 40 $ 167 $ 498 $ 379 WAC 6.7% 6.6% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.6% Fair value $ 522 $ 381 The following table provides information as of December 31, 2002 on interest rate swaps used to manage interest rate risk on fixed maturities and trust preferred securities and presents notional amounts with weighted average pay and receive rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2001. The weighted average rates are based on spot rates as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. THEREAFTER 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE SWAPS [1] 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 [2] TOTAL TOTAL Pay Variable/Receive Fixed Notional value $ $ 35 $ 15 $ $ $ 500 $ 550 $ 545 Weighted average pay rate 1.5% 1.4% 2.5% 2.4% 3.1% Weighted average receive rate 6.7% 2.8% 7.5% 7.3% 7.4% Fair value $ 25 $ (29) [1] Swap agreements in which the Company assumes credit exposure from a single entity, referenced index or asset pool are not included above, rather they are included in the Credit Risk discussion. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, these swaps had a notional value of $548 and $456, respectively, and fair value of $(37) and $(54), respectively. [2] Interest rate swap agreement of $500 notional value contains an embedded call option. See Note 1(h) in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2002 2001 INTEREST RATE CAPS LIBOR BASED 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL Purchased Notional value $ $ $ $ $ $ 500 $ 500 $ Weighted average strike rate (8.0%) 8.0% 8.0% Fair value $ 11 $ Property & Casualty uses option contracts to hedge fixed maturity investments that totaled $141 and $252 in notional value and $0 and $1 in fair value as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The table below provides information as of December 31, 2002 on debt obligations and trust preferred securities and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2001. 62 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL SHORT TERM DEBT Variable Rate Amount $ 315 $ $ $ $ $ $ 315 $ 599 Weighted average interest rate 1.5% 1.5% 4.2% Fair value $ 315 $ 607 LONG TERM DEBT Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ $ $ 300 $ 550 $ 850 $ 400 Weighted average interest rate 4.7% 6.1% 5.6% 6.8% Fair value $ 889 $ 401 TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES [1] Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,000 $ 1,000 Weighted average interest rate 7.6% 7.6% 7.6% Fair value $ 1,015 $ 968 [1] Represents Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures. Equities Price Risk Property & Casualty holds a diversified portfolio of investments in equity securities representing firms in various countries, industries and market segments ranging from small market capitalization stocks to Standard & Poors 500 stocks. The risk associated with these securities relates to potential decreases in value resulting from changes in equity prices. The following table reflects equity securities owned at December 31, 2002 and 2001, grouped by major market type. 2002 2001 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR COST FAIR VALUE VALUE COST FAIR VALUE VALUE EQUITY SECURITIES Domestic Large cap $ 209 $ 204 44.3% $ 386 $ 393 42.7% Midcap/small cap 221 231 50.4% 318 342 37.1% Foreign EAFE [1]/ Canadian 23 23 5.0% 158 184 20.0% Emerging 1 1 0.3% 2 2 0.2% TOTAL $ 454 $ 459 100.0% $ 864 $ 921 100.0% [1] Europe, Australia, Far East countries index. Currency Exchange Risk Currency exchange risk exists with respect to investments in non US dollar denominated securities. The fair value of these fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was $1 billion and $649, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company entered into a costless collar strategy to temporarily mitigate a portion of its currency risk in certain foreign denominated securities. Accordingly, the Company purchased foreign put options and wrote foreign call options expiring in January 2003. At December 31, 2002, the foreign put and call options had a notional value of $793 and fair value of $(4). Forward foreign contracts with a notional amount of $7 were used to manage currency exchange risk at December 31, 2001. CORPORATE Interest Rate Risk The primary exposure to interest rate risk in Corporate relates to the debt issued in connection with The HLI Repurchase. The table below provides information as of December 31, 2002 on Corporates debt obligations and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. 63 2002 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ 250 $ $ $ 380 $ 630 $ 525 Weighted average interest rate 7.8% 6.9% 7.2% 7.8% Fair value $ 698 $ 563 CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Capital resources and liquidity represent the overall financial strength of The Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business segments, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. The capital structure of The Hartford as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 consisted of debt and equity, summarized as follows: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 Short term debt $ 315 $ 599 $ 235 Long term debt 2,596 1,965 1,862 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures (trust preferred 1,468 1,412 1,243 securities) TOTAL DEBT $ 4,379 $ 3,976 $ 3,340 Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), net of tax $ 9,640 $ 8,479 $ 7,095 AOCI, net of tax 1,094 534 369 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 10,734 $ 9,013 $ 7,464 TOTAL CAPITALIZATION INCLUDING AOCI $ 15,113 $ 12,989 $ 10,804 TOTAL CAPITALIZATION EXCLUDING AOCI $ 14,019 $ 12,455 $ 10,435 Debt to equity [1] 41% 44% 45% Debt to capitalization [1] 29% 31% 31% [1] Excluding trust preferred securities from total debt and AOCI from total stockholders equity and total capitalization, the debt to equity ratio was 30%, 30% and 30%, and the debt to capitalization ratio was 21%, 21% and 20% as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS The following table identifies the Companys contractual obligations by payment due period. 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL Short term debt $ 315 $ $ $ $ $ $ 315 Long term debt 200 250 500 1,655 2,605 Trust preferred securities 1,450 1,450 Total debt $ 315 $ 200 $ 250 $ $ 500 $ 3,105 $ 4,370 Operating leases 134 121 108 93 78 160 694 Total contractual obligations $ 449 $ 321 $ 358 $ 93 $ 578 $ 3,265 $ 5,064 In addition to the contractual obligations above, The Hartford had certain unfunded commitments at December 31, 2002 to fund limited partnership investments totaling $396. These capital commitments can be called by the partnerships during the commitment period (on average, 3 6 years) to fund working capital needs or the purchase of new investments. If the commitment period expires and the commitment has not been fully funded, The Hartford is not required to fund the remaining unfunded commitment but may elect to do so. CAPITALIZATION The Hartford endeavors to maintain a capital structure that provides financial and operational flexibility to its insurance subsidiaries, ratings that support its competitive position in the financial services marketplace (see the Ratings section below for further discussion), and strong shareholder returns. As a result, the Company may from time to time raise capital from the issuance of stock, debt or other capital securities. The issuance of common stock, debt or other capital securities could result in the dilution of shareholder interests or reduced net income due to additional interest expense. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company increased its capitalization by $649 through the issuance of $330 in common stock and $319 in equity units. Proceeds of $300 were contributed to the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries, proceeds of $150 were contributed to the life insurance subsidiaries and the balance has been held for general corporate purposes, which may include additional capital contributions to the insurance subsidiaries. 64 In addition, as was the case after September 11, the Company may use the capital markets to replace capital upon completion of its asbestos review. During the year ended December 31, 2002, The Hartfords total capitalization increased by $2.1 billion, while total capitalization excluding AOCI increased by $1.6 billion. This increase was a result of 2002 net income; the aforementioned third quarter 2002 capital raising activities; and stock issued related to stock compensation plans. These increases were partially offset by dividends declared. AOCI AOCI increased by $560 as of December 31, 2002 compared with December 31, 2001. The increase resulted primarily from the impact of decreased interest rates on unrealized gains on the fixed maturity portfolio, the recognition of unrealized losses on other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity and equity securities and the net gain on cash flow hedging instruments, partially offset by an increase in the Companys minimum pension liability adjustment. The funded status of the Companys pension and postretirement plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of market interest rates. Recent declines in the value of securities traded in equity markets coupled with declines in long term interest rates have had a negative impact on the funded status of the plans. As a result, the Company has recorded a minimum pension liability as of December 31, 2002, which resulted in an after tax reduction of stockholders equity of $383. This minimum pension liability did not affect the Companys results of operations. AOCI increased by $165 as of December 31, 2001 compared with December 31, 2000. The increase resulted primarily from the impact of decreased interest rates on unrealized gains on the fixed maturity portfolio, the recognition of unrealized losses on other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity and equity securities and the net gain on cash flow hedging instruments. For additional information on stockholders equity, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SHELF REGISTRATION On May 15, 2001, HLI filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of up to $1.0 billion in debt and preferred securities. The registration statement was declared effective on May 29, 2001. As of December 31, 2002, HLI had $1.0 billion remaining on its shelf. On November 9, 2000, The Hartford filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement and a prospectus, as amended on May 21, 2002, for the potential offering and sale of up to an additional $2.6 billion in debt and equity securities. Specifically, the registration statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by The Hartford ("The Hartford Trusts") and guarantees by the Company with respect to the preferred securities of any of The Hartford Trusts. As of December 31, 2002, The Hartford had $1.3 billion remaining on the shelf. DEBT The following discussion describes the Companys debt financing activities. The table below details the Companys short term debt programs and the applicable balances outstanding. As of December 31, Description Effective Date Expiration Date Maximum Available 2002 2001 Commercial Paper The Hartford 11/10/86 N/A $ 2,000 $ 315 $ 299 HLI 2/7/97 N/A 250 Total commercial paper $ 2,250 $ 315 $ 299 Revolving Credit Facility 5 year revolving credit facility 6/20/01 6/20/06 $ 1,000 $ $ 3 year revolving credit facility 12/31/02 12/31/05 490 Total revolving credit facility $ 1,490 $ $ TOTAL SHORT TERM DEBT $ 3,740 $ 315 $ 299 The Hartford has a commercial paper program which allows the Company to borrow up to a maximum amount of $2.0 billion in short term commercial paper notes. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had $315 of outstanding borrowings under the program. On December 31, 2002, the Company and HLI entered into a joint three year $490 competitive advance and revolving credit facility comprised of 12 participating banks, and HLIs previous revolving credit facility was terminated. As of December 31, 2002, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. On September 13, 2002, The Hartford issued 6.6 million 6% equity units at a price of $50.00 per unit and received net proceeds of $319. The Hartford contributed $150 of the net proceeds to its property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and $75 of the net proceeds to its life insurance subsidiaries. The remaining balance of the net proceeds is for general corporate purposes, which may include additional capital contributions to subsidiaries. Each equity unit offered initially consists of a corporate unit with a stated amount of $50.00. Each corporate unit consists of one purchase contract for the sale of a certain number of shares of the Companys stock and $50.00 principal amount of senior notes due November 16, 2008. The corporate unit may be converted by the holder into a treasury unit consisting of the purchase contract and a 5% undivided beneficial interest in a zero coupon U.S. Treasury 65 security with a principal amount of one thousand dollars that matures on November 15, 2006. The holder of an equity unit owns the underlying senior notes or treasury portfolio but has pledged the senior notes or treasury portfolio to the Company to secure the holders obligations under the purchase contract. The purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase, and obligates The Hartford to sell, on November 16, 2006, for $50.00, a variable number of newly issued common shares of The Hartford. The number of The Hartfords shares to be issued will be determined at the time the purchase contracts are settled based upon the then current price of The Hartfords common stock. If the price of The Hartfords common stock is equal to or less than $47.25, then the Company will deliver 1.0582 shares to the holder of the equity unit. If the price of The Hartfords common stock is greater than $47.25 but less than $57.645, then the Company will deliver a fraction of shares equal to $50.00 divided by the then current price of The Hartfords common stock. Finally, if the price of The Hartfords common stock is equal to or greater than $57.645, then the Company will deliver 0.8674 shares to the holder. Accordingly, upon settlement of the purchase contracts on November 16, 2006, The Hartford will receive proceeds of approximately $330 and will deliver between 5.7 million and 7.0 million common shares in the aggregate. The proceeds will be credited to stockholders equity and allocated between the common stock and additional paid in capital accounts. The Hartford will make quarterly contract adjustment payments to the equity unit holders at a rate of 1.90% of the stated amount per year until the purchase contract is settled. Each corporate unit also includes $50.00 principal amount of senior notes that will mature on November 16, 2008. The notes are pledged by the holders to secure their obligations under the purchase contracts. The Hartford will make quarterly interest payments to the holders of the notes initially at an annual rate of 4.10%. On August 11, 2006, the notes will be remarketed. At that time, The Hartfords remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the interest rate on the notes in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the holders obligation under the purchase contract. In the event of an unsuccessful remarketing, the Company will exercise its rights as a secured party to obtain and extinguish the notes. The total distributions payable on the equity units are at an annual rate of 6.0%, consisting of interest (4.10%) and contract adjustment payments (1.90%). The corporate units are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "HIG PrA". The present value of the contract adjustment payments of $23 was accrued upon the issuance of the equity units as a charge to additional paid in capital and is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002. Subsequent contract adjustment payments will be allocated between this liability account and interest expense based on a constant rate calculation over the life of the transaction. Additional paid in capital as of December 31, 2002 reflected a charge of approximately $9 representing a portion of the equity unit issuance costs that were allocated to the purchase contracts. The equity units have been reflected in the diluted earnings per share calculation using the treasury stock method, which would be used for the equity units at any time before the issuance of shares of The Hartfords common stock upon settlement of the purchase contracts. Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share is increased by the excess, if any, of the number of shares issuable upon settlement of the purchase contracts over the number of shares that could be purchased by The Hartford in the market, at the average market price during the period, using the proceeds received upon settlement. The Company anticipates that there will be no dilutive effect on its earnings per share related to the equity units, except during periods when the average market price of a share of the Companys common stock is above the threshold appreciation price of $57.645. Because the average market price of The Hartfords common stock during the period from date of issuance through December 31, 2002 was below this threshold appreciation price, the shares issuable under the purchase contract component of the equity units have not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the period. On August 29, 2002, The Hartford issued 4.7% senior notes due September 1, 2007 and received proceeds before underwriting expenses of $300. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on March 1 and September 1, commencing on March 1, 2003. The Company used the proceeds to repay $300 of 6.375% senior notes that matured on November 1, 2002. In March 2002, the Company borrowed $16 of short term commercial notes for general corporate purposes. Effective June 20, 2001, The Hartford entered into an amended and restated five year revolving $1.0 billion credit facility with fourteen banks. This facility is available for general corporate purposes and to provide additional support to the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2002, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. On December 1, 2001, The Hartfords 8.3% medium term notes became due. The Company borrowed $200 under its commercial paper program to retire the debt. On March 1, 2001, HLI issued and sold $400 of senior debt securities to partially finance the Fortis acquisition. For additional information regarding debt, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES) On December 31, 2001, The Hartford redeemed its 20,000,000 Series B, 8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities due October 30, 2026 for $500. The Company used proceeds from its October 26, 2001 issuance of 7.45% Trust Originated Preferred Securities, Series C to redeem the securities. On October 26, 2001, Hartford Capital III, a Delaware statutory business trust formed by The Hartford, issued 20,000,000 7.45% Trust Originated Preferred Securities, Series C and received proceeds before underwriting expenses of $500. On March 6, 2001, HLI issued and sold $200 of trust preferred securities to partially finance the Fortis acquisition. 66 For a further discussion of Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures, see Note 8(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Issuance of common stock On September 13, 2002, The Hartford issued approximately 7.3 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering for net proceeds of $330. As a result of September 11, on October 22, 2001, The Hartford issued 7.0 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering for net proceeds of $400. Issuance of common stock Fortis Financial Group acquisition On February 16, 2001, The Hartford issued 10 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering for net proceeds of $615 to partially fund the Fortis Financial Group acquisition. Increase in authorized shares At the Companys annual meeting of shareholders held on April 18, 2002, shareholders approved an amendment to Section (a) Article Fourth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the aggregate authorized number of shares of common stock from 400 million to 750 million. Dividends The Hartford declared $262 and paid $257 in dividends to shareholders in 2002, declared $242 and paid $235 in 2001 and declared $214 and paid $210 in 2000. On October 24, 2002, The Hartfords Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27 per share payable on January 2, 2003 to shareholders of record as of December 2, 2002. The dividend represented a 4% increase from the prior quarter. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS The Company maintains a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") that covers substantially all employees, as well as unfunded excess plans to provide benefits in excess of amounts permitted to be paid to participants of the Plan under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally, the Company has entered into individual retirement agreements with certain current and retired directors providing for unfunded supplemental pension benefits. The Company made a voluntary contribution of $90 in cash to the Plan in 2001 and made no contributions in 2002 or 2000. Pension expense reflected in the Companys operating earnings was $67, $57 and $48 in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company estimates its 2003 pension expense will be approximately $135, based on current assumptions provided below. The assumptions that primarily impact the amount of the Companys pension obligations and periodic pension expense are the weighted average discount rate and the asset portfolios long term rate of return. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes information provided by its plan actuaries. In particular, the Company uses an interest rate yield curve developed and published by its plan actuaries to make judgments pursuant to EITF Topic No. D 36, "Selection of Discount Rates Used for Measuring Defined Benefit Pension Obligations and Obligations of Postretirement Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions". The yield curve is comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. Discounting the cash flows of the Companys pension plan using this yield curve, it was determined that 6.50% is the appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2002 to calculate the Companys accrued benefit cost liability. Accordingly, as prescribed by SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions", the 6.50% discount rate will also be used to determine the Companys 2003 pension expense. The Company determines the long term rate of return assumption for the Plans asset portfolio based on analysis of the portfolios historical compound rates of return since 1979 (the earliest date for which comparable portfolio data is available) over rolling 5 year, 10 year and 20 year periods, balanced along with future long term return expectations. The Company selected these periods, as well as shorter durations, to assess the portfolios volatility, duration and total returns as they relate to pension obligation characteristics, which are influenced by the Companys workforce demographics. While the historical return of the Plans portfolio has been 10.7% since 1979, management lowered its long term rate of return assumption from 9.75% to 9.00% as of December 31, 2002 based on its long term outlook with respect to the markets, which has been influenced by the poor equity market performance in recent years coupled with the recent decline in fixed income security yields during 2002. The Plans asset portfolio is generally structured over time to include approximately 60% equity securities (substantially securities issued by United States based companies) and 40% fixed income securities (substantially investment grade and above). At December 31, 2002, the portfolio composition varied from the targeted mix and was approximately 55% equity securities and 45% fixed income securities due in part to declines in the equity markets and declining interest rates. As provided for under SFAS No. 87, the Company uses a five year averaging method to determine the market related value of Plan assets, which is used to determine the expected return component of pension expense. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses that result from returns that differ from the Companys long term rate of return assumption are recognized in the market related value of assets on a level basis over a five year period. Due primarily to the unfavorable performance of the equity markets in 2001 and 2002, the actual asset return/(loss) for the Plan was $(111) and $(119) for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, as compared to an expected return of $183 and $168 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These differentials will be fully reflected in the market related value of Plan assets over the next five years using the methodology described above. The effect of the 2002 asset return loss has caused the level of unrecognized net losses to exceed the allowable amortization corridor as defined under SFAS No. 87. Based on the selected 2003 discount rate of 6.50% and taking into account estimated future minimum funding, the differential between actual and expected performance in 2002 will increase annual pension expense in future years by approximately $10 in 2003, increasing to approximately $40 in 2007. Additionally, the decrease in the long term rate of return assumption from 9.75% 67 to 9.00% is expected to increase the Companys annual pension expense by approximately $15. During 2002, the change in the discount rate from 7.50% (as of December 31, 2001) to 6.50% (as of December 31, 2002) increased the projected benefit obligation ("PBO") by $354. The effect of this increase in PBO will serve to increase annual pension expense by approximately $40, assuming no future changes in discount rates going forward. Changes in the economic assumptions used to determine pension expense will impact the Companys pension expense. As mentioned earlier, the two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. To illustrate the impact of these assumptions on annual pension expense for 2003 and going forward, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $12, and a 25 basis point change in the long term asset return assumption will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $5. While the Company has significant discretion in making voluntary contributions to the Plan, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 regulations mandate minimum contributions in certain circumstances. Under current assumptions, the 2003 required minimum funding contributions are estimated to be approximately $40. CASH FLOW 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,649 $ 2,303 $ 2,435 Net cash used for investing activities $ (6,624) $ (5,536) $ (2,164) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 3,989 $ 3,365 $ (208) Cash end of year $ 377 $ 353 $ 227 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of higher net income reported for the year ended December 31, 2002 than for the prior year as well as an increase in income tax refunds received in 2002 compared with the prior year. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily the result of increased proceeds from investment and universal life type contracts, partially offset by lower proceeds received from issuances of common stock and no issuances of trust preferred securities in 2002. The increase in cash from financing activities accounted for the majority of the change in cash for investing activities. 2001 COMPARED TO 2000 The increase in cash from financing activities was the result of current year proceeds on investment type contracts versus the prior year disbursements for investment type contracts and financing activities related to Fortis and September 11. Cash provided by financing and operating activities accounted for the majority of the change in cash for investing activities. The cash flows from operating activities were comparable with prior year. Operating cash flows in each of the last three years have been adequate to meet liquidity requirements. RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position in the insurance and financial services marketplace. There can be no assurance that the Companys ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be changed. In the event the Companys ratings are downgraded, the level of revenues or the persistency of the Companys business may be adversely impacted. The following table summarizes The Hartfords significant United States member companies financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations as of February 28, 2003. A.M. STANDARD BEST FITCH & POORS MOODYS INSURANCE FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS: Hartford Fire A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life Insurance Company A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life & Accident A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life & Annuity A+ AA AA Aa3 OTHER RATINGS: The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.: Senior debt a+ A A A2 Commercial paper AMB 1 F 1 A 2 P 1 Hartford Capital I quarterly income preferred securities a A BBB A3 Hartford Capital III trust originated preferred securities a A BBB A3 Hartford Life, Inc.: Senior debt a+ A A A2 Commercial paper F 1 A 2 P 1 Hartford Life, Inc.: Capital I and II trust preferred securities a A BBB A3 Hartford Life Insurance Company: Short Term Rating A 1+ P 1 The agencies consider many factors in determining the final rating of an insurance company. One consideration is the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business written. Statutory surplus represents the capital of the insurance company reported in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by the applicable state insurance department. The table below sets forth statutory surplus for the Companys insurance companies. 2002 2001 Life Operations $ 3,019 $ 2,991 Property & Casualty Operations 5,131 4,159 TOTAL $ 8,150 $ 7,150 On January 28, 2003, following The Hartfords announcement that it is commencing a comprehensive review of its asbestos loss reserves, A.M. Best Co. placed under review with negative implications the commercial paper and debt ratings of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("HFSG") and Hartford Life, Inc. Concurrently, the financial strength ratings of The Hartfords various life and property and casualty subsidiaries remain unaffected. On December 16, 2002, all of The 68 Hartfords financial strength and debt ratings were affirmed. The under review status is expected to be completed in conjunction with the Companys completion of its asbestos reserve study prior to the end of second quarter 2003. On January 28, 2003, Fitch Ratings placed its fixed income ratings for HFSG and its insurer financial strength ratings for The Hartford Fire Intercompany Pool on Rating Watch Negative. Ratings for HFSGs life insurance subsidiaries and fixed income ratings at the life insurance operations intermediate holding company, Hartford Life, Inc., were not impacted by Fitchs rating actions and remain on stable outlook. Fitchs rating action followed the Companys announcement that it is commencing a comprehensive review of its asbestos loss reserves. Fitch anticipates responding to the Rating Watch status upon completion of the asbestos review or potentially sooner if certain uncertainties are resolved earlier. On September 19, 2002, Fitch Ratings lowered the ratings of The Hartford Life Group as part of a comprehensive industry review of all North American life insurance company ratings. For The Hartford Life Group, Fitch stated the rating action was driven primarily by Fitchs opinion that most of the very strong, publicly owned insurance organizations are more appropriately rated in the `AA rating category. Fitch also changed its view on the variable annuity business and stated that it believes that the associated risks, mainly variable earnings, are greater than previously considered. Fitchs long term fixed income ratings on The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. were also lowered, while the affiliated property and casualty insurer financial strength ratings were affirmed. The rating outlooks are stable. On January 28, 2003, Moodys confirmed the ratings of HFSG and its subsidiaries, including the ratings of Hartford Life, Inc. following the Companys announcement that it is commencing a comprehensive review of its asbestos loss reserves. The review is expected to be completed during the second quarter 2003. In the same action, Moodys changed the outlook on the debt ratings for both the parent company and HLI to negative from stable and also placed a negative outlook on the insurance financial strength ratings of members of The Hartfords property and casualty intercompany pool. The negative outlook reflects the significant uncertainty surrounding the Companys asbestos liabilities. The outlook for the insurance financial strength ratings (Aa3) for the life insurance companies remains stable. On September 4, 2002, Moodys revised its outlook on The Hartfords debt ratings to Stable from Negative citing The Hartfords commitment to maintaining its capital strength in the event of a significant unforeseen loss or adverse development that would weaken its capital position. On November 26, 2002, Standard & Poors removed from CreditWatch its counterparty credit rating on The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and related entities and lowered it to `A from `A reflecting concerns about trends in the retirement and savings sector, the consolidated capitalization of the Companys insurance operations and the increasingly competitive environment for spread based and equity linked retirement and savings products. At the same time, Standard & Poors lowered to AA from AA the insurance financial strength ratings of Hartford Fire Intercompany Pool and the life insurance subsidiaries of HLI. ACQUISITIONS Fortis On April 2, 2001, The Hartford acquired Fortis Financial Group for $1.12 billion in cash. The Company effected the acquisition through several reinsurance agreements with subsidiaries of Fortis, Inc. and the purchase of 100% of the stock of Fortis Advisers, Inc. and Fortis Investors, Inc., wholly owned subsidiaries of Fortis, Inc. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase transaction. Purchase consideration for the transaction was as follows: Issuance of: Common stock issuance (10 million shares @ $64.00 per share), net of transaction costs $ 615 Long term notes: $400 7.375% notes due March 1, 2031 400 Trust preferred securities: $200 7.625% Trust Preferred Securities (Series B) due February 15, 2050 200 Consideration raised $ 1,215 For a further discussion of the Fortis acquisition, see Note 18(a) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. EQUITY MARKETS For a discussion of the potential impact of the equity markets on capital and liquidity, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk". LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met by funds from operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt securities and borrowings from its credit facilities. The principal sources of operating funds are premiums and investment income as well as maturities and sales of invested assets. The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company which receives operating cash flow in the form of dividends from its subsidiaries, enabling it to service debt, pay dividends on its common stock and pay certain business expenses. Dividends to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. from its subsidiaries are restricted. The payment of dividends by Connecticut domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding company laws of Connecticut. Under these laws, the insurance subsidiaries may only make their dividend payments out of unassigned surplus. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurers policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations, if such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve month period ending on the thirty first day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting policies. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut domiciled insurer 69 exceeds the insurers earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartfords insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar (although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends. As of December 31, 2002, the maximum amount of statutory dividends which may be paid to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. from its insurance subsidiaries in 2003, without prior regulatory approval, is $1.8 billion. The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses and commissions and to purchase new investments. In addition, The Hartford has a policy of carrying a significant short term investment position and accordingly does not anticipate selling intermediate and long term fixed maturity investments to meet any liquidity needs. (For a discussion of the Companys investment objectives and strategies, see the Investments and Capital Markets Risk Management sections.) TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT OF 2002 On November 26, 2002, President Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the "Act") into law. The Act established a program that will run through 2005 that provides a backstop for insurance related losses resulting from any "act of terrorism" certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and Attorney General. The Act created a program under which the federal government will pay 90% of covered losses after an insurers losses exceed a deductible determined by a statutorily prescribed formula, up to a combined annual aggregate limit for the federal government and all insurers of $100 billion. If an act of terrorism or acts of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, insurers with losses exceeding their deductibles will not be responsible for additional losses. The statutory formula for determining a companys deductible for each year is based on the companys direct commercial earned premiums for the prior calendar year multiplied by a specified percentage. The specified percentages are 7% for 2003, 10% for 2004 and 15% for 2005. For example, based on The Hartfords 2002 direct commercial earned premiums of $5 billion, The Hartfords 2003 deductible would be $350. The Act applies to a significant portion of The Hartfords commercial property and casualty contracts, but it specifically excludes some of The Hartfords other insurance business, including crop or livestock insurance, reinsurance and personal lines business. The Act currently does not apply to group life insurance contracts but permits the Secretary of the Treasury to extend the backstop protection to them. The Act requires all property and casualty insurers, including The Hartford, to make terrorism insurance coverage available in all of their covered commercial property and casualty insurance policies (as defined in the Act). The Hartford will evaluate risks with terrorism exposures by applying its internally developed underwriting guidelines and control plans. The Hartford does not anticipate significant increases in premiums due to the Act. RISK BASED CAPITAL The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has regulations establishing minimum capitalization requirements based on risk based capital ("RBC") formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The requirements consist of formulas, which identify companies that are undercapitalized and require specific regulatory actions. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. RBC is calculated for property and casualty companies after adjusting capital for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off balance sheet risks. As of December 31, 2002, each of The Hartfords insurance subsidiaries within Life and Property & Casualty had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAICs RBC requirements. CONTINGENCIES Legal Proceedings The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. Subject to the discussion of the litigation involving MacArthur in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and the uncertainties related to asbestos and environmental claims discussed in the MD&A under the caption "Other Operations," management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course claims litigation, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford. The Hartford is also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative state and federal class actions seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for example, underpayment of claims or improper underwriting practices in connection with various kinds of insurance policies, such as personal and commercial automobile, premises liability and inland marine. The Hartford also is involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of The Hartford. Nonetheless, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Dependence on Certain Third Party Relationships The Company distributes its annuity, life and certain property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including broker dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third party organizations. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms 70 will remain acceptable to the Company or such third parties. An interruption in the Companys continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect the Companys ability to market its products. LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES Federal measures which have been previously considered or enacted by Congress and which, if revisited, could affect the insurance business include tax law changes pertaining to the tax treatment of insurance companies and life insurance and annuity products, as well as changes in individual income tax rates and the estate tax. These changes could have an impact on the relative desirability of various personal investment vehicles. Legislation to restructure the Social Security system, expand private pension plans, and create new retirement savings incentives also may be considered. The Bush Administrations fiscal year 2004 budget contains several proposals that could materially affect the Companys business. In particular, there are proposals that would more fully integrate corporate and individual taxes by permitting the distribution of nontaxable dividends to shareholders under certain circumstances. These proposals, if enacted, could have a material effect on sales of the Companys variable annuities and other retirement savings products, as well as implications for the Companys shareholders, both with respect to the amount of taxable dividends received, as well as the price of and tax basis in their holdings of the Companys common stock. The dividend exclusion proposal, if enacted, also would reduce the federal tax benefits currently received by the Company stemming from the dividends received deduction. There also are proposals in the federal 2004 budget submitted by President Bush that would create new investment vehicles with larger annual contribution limits for individuals to use for savings purposes. Some of these proposed vehicles would have significant tax advantages, and could have material effects on the Companys product portfolio. There have also been proposals regarding certain deferred compensation arrangements that could have negative effects on the Companys product sales. Prospects for enactment of this legislation in 2003 are uncertain. Therefore, any potential effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Congress is likely to consider a number of legal reform proposals this year. Among them is legislation that would reduce the number and type of national class actions certified by state judges by updating the federal rules on diversity jurisdiction. Other proposals that will likely be considered by Congress this year include those to reform the asbestos litigation environment by, among other things, implementing medical criteria that must be met by asbestos claimants or establishing an administrative claims facility to compensate those with asbestos related injuries. Prospects for enactment of these proposals in 2003 are uncertain. INSOLVENCY FUND In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become members of an insolvency fund. In most states, in the event of the insolvency of an insurer writing any such class of insurance in the state, members of the fund are assessed to pay certain claims of the insolvent insurer. A particular states fund assesses its members based on their respective written premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state. Such assessments paid by The Hartford approximated $26 in 2002, $6 in 2001 and $2 in 2000. NAIC CODIFICATION The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ("Codification") in March 1998. The effective date for the statutory accounting guidance was January 1, 2001. Each of The Hartfords domiciliary states has adopted Codification, and the Company has made the necessary changes in its statutory reporting required for implementation. The impact of applying the new guidance resulted in a benefit of approximately $400 in statutory surplus. OTHER For further information on other contingencies, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. EFFECT OF INFLATION The rate of inflation as measured by the change in the average consumer price index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating results of The Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years. 71 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is set forth in the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
