ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") addresses the financial condition of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, "The Hartford" or the "Company") as of December 31, 2003, compared with December 31, 2002, and its results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes beginning on page F 1. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to conform to the current year presentation. Certain of the statements contained herein are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive and legislative developments. These forward looking statements are subject to change and uncertainty which are, in many instances, beyond the Companys control and have been made based upon managements expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect upon the Company. There can be no assurance that future developments will be in accordance with managements expectations or that the effect of future developments on The Hartford will be those anticipated by management. Actual results could differ materially from those expected by the Company, depending on the outcome of various factors. These factors include: the difficulty in predicting the Companys potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, including the Companys dispute with Mac Arthur Company and its subsidiary, Western MacArthur Company (collectively, or individually, "MacArthur") if the conditions to the consummation of our settlement with MacArthur are not satisfied; the uncertain nature of damage theories and loss amounts and the development of additional facts related to the September 11 terrorist attack ("September 11"); the uncertain effect on the Company of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, in particular the reduction in tax rates on long term capital gains and most dividend distributions; the response of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts, the impact of increasing reinsurance rates and the availability and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses; the inability to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility on the Companys financial position and results of operations arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees; the possibility of more unfavorable loss experience than anticipated; the possibility of general economic and business conditions that are less favorable than anticipated; the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both natural and man made; the effect of changes in interest rates, the stock markets or other financial markets; stronger than anticipated competitive activity; unfavorable legislative, regulatory or judicial developments; the Companys ability to distribute its products through distribution channels, both current and future; the uncertain effects of emerging claim and coverage issues; the effect of assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements; a downgrade in the Companys claims paying, financial strength or credit ratings; the ability of the Companys subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company; and other factors described in such forward looking statements. INDEX Overview 19 Critical Accounting Estimates 21 Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary 28 Life 31 Investment Products 33 Individual Life 34 Group Benefits 35 Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) 36 Property & Casualty 37 Business Insurance 42 Personal Lines 44 Specialty Commercial 46 Reinsurance 48 Other Operations (Including Asbestos and Environmental Claims) 49 Investments 55 Investment Credit Risk 59 Capital Markets Risk Management 64 Capital Resources and Liquidity 71 Effect of Inflation 78 Impact of New Accounting Standards 78 OVERVIEW The Hartford provides investment products and life and property and casualty insurance to both individual and business customers in the United States and internationally. The Company is organized into two major operations: Life and Property & Casualty. An overview of these operations and the principal factors that drive the profitability of these operations follows. LIFE Life provides investment and retirement products such as variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds and retirement plan services and other institutional products; individual and corporate owned life insurance; and, group benefit products, such as group life and group disability insurance. 19 Life derives its revenues principally from: (a) fee income, including asset management fees, on separate account and mutual fund assets and mortality and expense fees, as well as cost of insurance charges; (b) fully insured premiums; (c) certain other fees; and (d) net investment income on general account assets. Asset management fees and mortality and expense fees are primarily generated from separate account assets, which are deposited with the Company through the sale of variable annuity and variable universal life products and from mutual funds. Cost of insurance charges are assessed on the net amount at risk for investment oriented life insurance products. Premium revenues are derived primarily from the sale of group life and group disability insurance products. Lifes expenses essentially consist of interest credited to policyholders on general account liabilities, insurance benefits provided, dividends to policyholders, costs of selling and servicing the various products offered by the Company, and other general business expenses. Lifes profitability in its variable annuity, mutual fund and, to a lesser extent, variable universal life businesses depends largely on the amount of its assets under management on which it earns fees and the level of fees charged. Changes in assets under management are comprised of two main factors: net flows, which measure the success of Lifes asset gathering and retention efforts (sales and other deposits less surrenders) and the market return of the funds, which is heavily influenced by the return on the equity markets. The profitability of Lifes fixed annuities depends largely on its ability to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on its general account assets and interest credited to policyholders. Profitability is also influenced by operating expense management including the benefits of economies of scale in its variable annuity businesses in particular. In addition, the size and persistency of gross profits from these businesses is an important driver of earnings as it affects the amortization of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Lifes profitability in its individual life insurance and group benefits businesses depends largely on the size of its in force block, the adequacy of product pricing and underwriting discipline, and the efficiency of its claims and expense management. PROPERTY & CASUALTY Property & Casualty provides a number of coverages to businesses throughout the United States, including workers compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, specialty casualty, marine, agriculture, bond, professional liability and directors and officers liability coverage. Property & Casualty also provides automobile, homeowners and home based business coverage to individuals throughout the United States as well as insurance related services to businesses. Property & Casualty derives its revenues principally from premium earned for insurance coverages provided to insureds, investment income, net realized capital gains and losses, and, to a lesser extent, from fees earned for services provided to third parties. Premiums are earned on a pro rata basis over the terms of the related policies in force. Service fees principally include revenues from third party claims administration services provided by Specialty Risk Services and revenues from member contact center services provided through AARPs Health Care Options program. Property & Casualty underwriting segments are evaluated by The Hartfords management primarily based upon underwriting results. Underwriting results represent earned premiums less incurred claims, claim adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses. Underwriting results are influenced significantly by the adequacy of the Companys pricing. Property & Casualty seeks to price its insurance policies such that insurance premiums and net investment income earned on premiums received will cover underwriting expenses and the ultimate cost of paying claims reported on the policies and provide for a profit margin. For some of its insurance products, Property & Casualty is required to obtain approval for its premium rates from state insurance departments. Underwriting profitability is also greatly influenced by the Companys underwriting discipline which seeks to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk selection and by its ability to manage its expense ratio which it accomplishes through economies of scale and its management of underwriting expenses. In setting its pricing, Property & Casualty assumes an expected level of losses from natural or man made catastrophes that will cover the Companys exposure to catastrophes over the long term. In any one year, however, Property & Casualtys actual losses from catastrophes may be significantly more or less than that assumed in its pricing. A catastrophe loss is an event that causes $25 or more in industry insured property losses and affects a significant number of property and casualty policyholders and insurers. Also, given the lag in the period from when claims are incurred to when they are reported and paid, final claim settlements may vary from current estimates of incurred losses and loss expenses, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. Adjustments to previously established loss and loss expense reserves, if any, are reflected in underwriting results in the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary. Through its Other Operations segment, Property & Casualty is responsible for managing the operations of The Hartford that have discontinued writing new business as well as managing the claims related to asbestos and environmental exposures. As such, the underwriting loss in Other Operations is principally related to development on claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. 20 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following estimates as critical in that they involve a higher degree of judgment and are subject to a significant degree of variability; reserves; investments; deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits; pension and other postretirement benefits; and contingencies. In developing these estimates management makes subjective and complex judgments that are inherently uncertain and subject to material change as facts and circumstances develop. Although variability is inherent in these estimates, management believes the amounts provided are appropriate based upon the facts available upon compilation of the financial statements. RESERVES LIFE The Companys life insurance subsidiaries establish and carry as liabilities actuarially determined reserves which are calculated to meet The Hartfords future obligations. Reserves for life insurance and disability contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the United States, which are modified to reflect the Companys actual experience when appropriate. These reserves are computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated premiums to be received and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are expected to be sufficient to meet the Companys policy obligations at their maturities or in the event of an insureds death. Changes in or deviations from the assumptions used for mortality, morbidity, expected future premiums and interest can significantly affect the Companys reserve levels and related future operations. Reserves also include unearned premiums, premium deposits, claims incurred but not reported ("IBNR") and claims reported but not yet paid. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that is comparable to direct insurance reserves. The liability for policy benefits for universal life type contracts and interest sensitive whole life policies is equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders, including credited interest, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the Company for services to be performed over future periods, and any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract. For investment contracts, policyholder liabilities are equal to the accumulated policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of deposit payments plus credited interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through the end of the period. Certain investment contracts include provisions whereby a guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") is provided in the event that the contractholders account value at death is below the guaranteed value. Although the Company reinsures the majority of the death benefit guarantees associated with its in force block of business, declines in the equity market may increase the Companys net exposure to death benefits under these contracts. In addition, these contracts contain various provisions for determining the amount of the death benefit guaranteed following the withdrawal of a portion of the account value by the policyholder. Partial withdrawals under certain of these contracts may not result in a reduction in the guaranteed minimum death benefit in proportion to the account value surrendered. The Company records the death benefit costs, net of reinsurance, upon death. See Impact of New Accounting Standards section for a discussion of the Companys adoption of Statement of Position 03 1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts" (the "SOP") in 2004 and the recording of a liability for GMDB in accordance with the provisions of the SOP. For the Companys group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety of factors including particular diagnoses, termination rates and benefit levels. PROPERTY & CASUALTY The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims made under policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that past developments are an appropriate predictor of future events and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze experience, trends and other relevant factors. Reserve estimates can change over time because of unexpected changes in the external environment. Potential external factors include (1) changes in the inflation rate for goods and services related to covered damages such as medical care, hospital care, auto parts, wages and home repair, (2) changes in the general economic environment that could cause unanticipated changes in the claim frequency per unit insured, (3) changes in the litigious environment as evidenced by changes in claimant attorney representation in the claims negotiation and settlement process, (4) changes in the judicial environment regarding the interpretation of policy provisions relating to the determination of coverage and or the amount of damages awarded for certain types of damages, (5) changes in the social environment regarding the general attitude of juries in the determination of liability and damages, (6) changes in the regulatory environment regarding rates, rating plans and policy forms, (7) changes in the legislative environment regarding the definition of damages and (8) new types of injuries caused by new types of exposure to injury: past examples include breast implants, tobacco products, lead paint, construction defects and blood product contamination. Reserve estimates can also change over time because of changes in internal company operations. Potential internal factors include (1) periodic changes in claims handling procedures, (2) growth in new lines of business where exposure and loss development patterns are not well established or (3) changes in the quality of risk selection in the underwriting process. In the case of reinsurance, all of the above risks apply. In addition, changes in ceding company case reserving and 21 reporting patterns create additional factors that need to be considered in estimating the reserves. Due to the inherent complexity of the assumptions used, final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present estimates, particularly when those settlements may not occur until well into the future. The Hartford, like other insurance companies, categorizes and tracks its insurance reserves for its segments by "line of business", such as general liability, commercial multi peril, workers compensation, auto bodily injury, auto physical damage, homeowners and assumed reinsurance. Furthermore, The Hartford regularly reviews the appropriateness of reserve levels at the line of business level, taking into consideration the variety of trends that impact the ultimate settlement of claims for the subsets of claims in each particular line of business. Adjustments to previously established reserves, if any, are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary. In the judgment of management, all information currently available has been properly considered in the reserves established for claims and claim adjustment expenses. The Hartford is a multiline company in the property and casualty business. The Hartford is therefore subject to reserve uncertainty stemming from conditions, including but not limited to, those noted above, any of which could be material at any point in time for any segment. Certain issues may become more or less important over time as external or internal conditions change. As various market conditions develop, management must assess whether those conditions constitute a long term trend that should result in a reserving action (i.e. increasing or decreasing the reserve). Below is a discussion of certain market conditions that Company management has observed during 2003. The Company continues to carry the original incurred amount related to September 11, less any paid losses. Actual experience in some cases appears to be developing favorably to our original expectations, such as the higher than anticipated rate of participation in the victims compensation fund. There is still uncertainty, particularly with respect to coverage disputes and the potential for the emergence of latent injuries. Furthermore, the deadline for filing a liability claim with respect to September 11 has been extended to March 11, 2004. As various deadlines pass and more coverage disputes are settled either outside of court or through a court decision, the uncertainty about various aspects of the reserves will likely be reduced. The Company will continue to evaluate these reserves on a quarterly basis throughout 2004 and will make adjustments where appropriate. Within the commercial segments and the Other Operations segment, the Company has exposure to losses from construction defects and other mass torts. Construction defect losses involve the allegation of property damage from poor construction. The Company also has exposure to claims asserted for bodily injury as a result of long term or continuous exposure to harmful products or substances. Examples include, but are not limited to, pharmaceutical products, latex gloves, silica and lead paint. Such exposures involve potentially long latency periods and the spreading of coverage across years. These factors make reserves for such claims more uncertain than other bodily injury or property damage claims. In Personal Lines, reserving estimates are generally less variable than for the Companys other property and casualty segments. This is largely due to the coverages having relatively shorter periods of loss emergence. Estimates, however, can still vary due to a number of factors, including interpretations of frequency and severity trends and their impact on recorded reserve levels. With respect to severity, the Companys current accident year case reserves indicated a moderation in claim severity trends, which may be attributable in whole or in part to recent changes in internal claim practices. Changes in claim practices increase the uncertainty in the interpretation of case reserve data which, therefore, increases the uncertainty in recorded reserve levels. In Business Insurance, workers compensation is the Companys single biggest line and the line with the longest pattern of loss emergence. Reserve estimates for workers compensation are particularly sensitive to assumptions about medical inflation, which has been increasing steadily over the past few years. In addition, changes in state legislative and regulatory environments impact the Companys estimates. In particular, the California environment has been very volatile. The California legislature has recently passed a slate of reforms with the intention of reducing loss costs. Some of the reforms will impact open claims, and therefore, will potentially impact reserve estimates. How these reforms will impact the amount and timing of loss payments is still unknown. In the Specialty Commercial segment, many lines of insurance, such as excess insurance and deductible workers compensation insurance are "long tailed" lines of insurance. For long tailed lines, the period of time between the incidence of the insured loss and either the reporting of the claim to the insurer, the settlement of the claim, or the payment of the claim can be substantial and in some cases several years. As a result of this extended period of time for losses to emerge, reserve estimates for these lines are more uncertain (i.e. more variable) than reserve estimates for shorter tailed lines of insurance. Estimating required reserve levels for deductible workers compensation insurance is further complicated by the uncertainty of whether losses that are attributable to the deductible amount can be paid by the insured; if such losses are not paid by the insured due to financial difficulties, the Company would be contractually liable. Another example of reserve variability relates to reserves for directors and officers insurance. The required level of reserves for the recent financial and Wall Street scandals, including those involving the mutual fund industry, the investment banking industry and various highly publicized bankruptcies, is still uncertain. In the Reinsurance segments, much of the business is long tailed; reserve estimates for this business are therefore subject to variability caused by extended loss emergence periods that were described for the Specialty Commercial segment. In the case of assumed reinsurance, there is the added complexity of further reporting delays between the time of the incidence of the loss and the reporting of the claim to the direct insurer and the reporting by the direct insurer to the reinsurer. There is also the complexity of the dependence on the quality and consistency of the loss reporting of the ceding company. And finally, there is the added variability caused by the reinsurer generally not having loss information as detailed as the direct insurer. The Companys reinsurance casualty business for accident years 1997 2001 has proven particularly difficult to project. 22 In the opinion of management, based upon the known facts and current law, the reserves recorded for The Hartfords property and casualty businesses at December 31, 2003 represent the Companys best estimate of its ultimate liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses related to losses covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant uncertainties surrounding environmental and particularly asbestos exposures, it is possible that managements estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims may change and that the required adjustment to recorded reserves could exceed the currently recorded reserves by an amount that could be material to The Hartfords results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS The Hartford continues to receive claims that assert damages from asbestos related and environmental related exposures. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by those who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean up costs. The Hartford wrote several different categories of insurance coverage to which asbestos and environmental claims may apply. First, The Hartford wrote direct policies as a primary liability insurance carrier. Second, The Hartford wrote direct excess insurance policies providing additional coverage for insureds that exhausted their primary liability insurance coverage. Third, The Hartford acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of risks previously assumed by other insurers writing primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, The Hartford participated as a London Market company that wrote both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business. In establishing reserves for asbestos and environmental claims, The Hartford evaluates both each insureds probable liability for such claims and each insureds total available insurance coverage for such claims. In evaluating each insureds probable liability for asbestos and environmental claims; The Hartford considers a variety of factors that are unique to each insured. With respect to each insureds probable liability for asbestos claims, these factors include the jurisdictions where underlying claims have been brought, past and anticipated future claim activity, past settlement values of similar claims, allocated claim adjustment expense, and potential bankruptcy impact. The Hartfords evaluation of each insureds probable liability for environmental claims involves consideration of similar factors, including historical values of similar claims, the number of sites involved, the insureds alleged activities at each site, the alleged environmental damage at each site, the respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties at each site, the appropriateness and cost of remediation at each site, the nature of governmental enforcement activities at each site, the ownership and general use of each site, and potential bankruptcy impact. Having evaluated the insureds probable liability for asbestos and or environmental claims, The Hartford then evaluates each insureds insurance coverage program for such claims. The Hartford considers each insureds total available insurance coverage, including the coverage issued by The Hartford. This evaluation includes consideration of the number of years of coverage, applicable limits of liability, self insured retentions, deductibles, exclusions, insolvencies, and "bare" periods. The Hartford also considers relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including in the case of asbestos claims whether some or all of the claims for which an insured seeks coverage are products or completed operations claims subject to aggregate limits. For both asbestos and environmental reserves, The Hartford also compares its historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience, and net loss and expense paid and incurred experience year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity. Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated claim adjustment expense is determined for each insured by each policy year, The Hartford calculates its ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance and the Companys experience with reinsurance collections. Uncertainties Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related settlement expenses. Conventional reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux. As a result of the factors discussed in the following paragraphs, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other, more traditional exposures. In particular, The Hartford believes there is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate development patterns, plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. Courts have reached inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are applied; whether particular claims are product/completed operation claims subject to an aggregate limit; and how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted. Furthermore, insurers in general, including The Hartford, have recently experienced an increase in the number of asbestos related claims due to, among other things, more intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, plaintiffs increased focus on new and previously peripheral defendants, and an increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. Plaintiffs and insureds have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings including "pre packaged" bankruptcies to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some policyholders have begun to assert new classes of claims for so called "non products" coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not apply. Recently, many insurers, including The Hartford, also have been sued directly by asbestos claimants asserting that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future. 23 In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include court decisions that have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than originally intended; inconsistent decisions, especially across jurisdictions; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured. Further uncertainties include the effect of the recent acceleration in the rate of bankruptcy filings by asbestos defendants on the rate and amount of The Hartfords asbestos claims payments; a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims which cannot now be anticipated; whether some policyholders liabilities will reach the umbrella or excess layers of their coverage; the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos claims in a manner inconsistent with The Hartfords previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against The Hartford; and unanticipated developments pertaining to The Hartfords ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Additionally, the reporting pattern for excess insurance and reinsurance claims is much longer than direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or years to determine that the customers own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves. Given the factors and emerging trends described above, The Hartford believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos exposures. The Hartford continually evaluates new information and new methodologies in assessing its potential asbestos exposures. At any time, The Hartford may be conducting an analysis of newly identified information. Completion of exposure analyses could cause The Hartford to change its estimates of its asbestos reserves, and the effect of these changes could be material to the Companys consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. In the first quarter of 2003, The Hartford conducted a detailed study of its asbestos exposures. The Company undertook the study consistent with its practice of regularly updating its reserve estimates as new information becomes available. The Company strengthened its gross and net asbestos reserves by $3.9 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, during the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. The process of estimating asbestos reserves remains subject to a wide variety of uncertainties, which are detailed in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Due to these uncertainties, further developments could cause The Hartford to change its estimates of asbestos reserves, and the effect of these changes could be material to the Companys consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. INVESTMENTS The Hartfords investments in both fixed maturities, which include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and commercial paper and equity securities, which include common and non redeemable preferred stocks, are classified as "available for sale" as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". Accordingly, these securities are carried at fair value with the after tax difference from amortized cost, as adjusted for the effect of deducting the life and pension policyholders share of the immediate participation guaranteed contracts and certain life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs, reflected in stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). Policy loans are carried at outstanding balance, which approximates fair value. Other investments primarily consist of limited partnership interests, derivatives and mortgage loans. The limited partnerships are accounted for under the equity method and accordingly the partnership earnings are included in net investment income. Derivatives are carried at fair value and mortgage loans on real estate are recorded at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts and net of valuation allowances, if any. Valuation of Fixed Maturities The fair value for fixed maturity securities is largely determined by one of three primary pricing methods: independent third party pricing services, independent broker quotations or pricing matrices, which use data provided by external sources. With the exception of short term securities for which amortized cost is predominantly used to approximate fair value, security pricing is applied using a hierarchy or "waterfall" approach whereby prices are first sought from independent pricing services with the remaining unpriced securities submitted to brokers for prices or lastly priced via a pricing matrix. Prices from independent pricing services are often unavailable for securities that are rarely traded or are traded only in privately negotiated transactions. As a result, a significant percentage of the Companys asset backed and commercial mortgage backed securities are priced via broker quotations. A pricing matrix is used to price securities for which the Company is unable to obtain either a price from a third party service or an independent broker quotation. The pricing matrix begins with current treasury rates and uses credit spreads and issuer specific yield adjustments received from an independent third party source to determine the market price for the security. The credit spreads incorporate the issuers credit rating as assigned by a nationally recognized rating agency and a risk premium, if warranted, due to the issuers industry and securitys time to maturity. The issuer specific yield adjustments, which can be positive or negative, are updated twice annually, as of June 30 and December 31, by an independent third party source and are intended to adjust security prices for issuer specific factors. The matrix priced securities at December 31, 2003 and 2002, primarily consisted of non 144A private placements and have an average duration of 4.5. 24 The following table identifies the fair value of fixed maturity securities by pricing source as of December 31, 2003 and 2002: 2003 2002 General and Guaranteed Percentage General and Guaranteed Percentage Separate Account Fixed of Total Separate Account Fixed of Total Maturities at Fair Value Fair Value Maturities at Fair Value Fair Value Priced via independent market quotations $ 60,871 83.4% $ 48,680 81.1% Priced via broker quotations 4,113 5.6% 5,809 9.7% Priced via matrices 4,253 5.8% 3,232 5.4% Priced via other methods 337 0.5% 234 0.4% Short term investments [1] 3,424 4.7% 2,019 3.4% Total $ 72,998 100.0% $ 59,974 100.0% Total general accounts $ 61,263 83.9% $ 48,889 81.5% Total guaranteed separate accounts $ 11,735 16.1% $ 11,085 18.5% [1] Short term investments are valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. As such, the estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold immediately. Other Than Temporary Impairments One of the significant estimations inherent in the valuation of investments is the evaluation of other than temporary impairments. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers financial condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. The Companys accounting policy requires that a decline in the value of a security below its amortized cost basis be assessed to determine if the decline is other than temporary. If so, the security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, and a charge is recorded in net realized capital losses equal to the difference between the fair value and amortized cost basis of the security. The fair value of the other than temporarily impaired investment becomes its new cost basis. The Company has a security monitoring process overseen by a committee of investment and accounting professionals that identifies securities that, due to certain characteristics, as described below, are subjected to an enhanced analysis on a quarterly basis. Securities not subject to Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 99 20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets ("non EITF Issue No. 99 20 securities"), that are depressed by twenty percent or more for six months are presumed to be other than temporarily impaired unless the depression is the result of rising interest rates or significant objective verifiable evidence supports that the security price is temporarily depressed and is expected to recover within a reasonable period of time. Non EITF Issue No. 99 20 securities depressed less than twenty percent or depressed twenty percent or more but for less than six months are also reviewed to determine if an other than temporary impairment is present. The primary factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in value for non EITF Issue No. 99 20 securities is other than temporary include: (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (b) the financial condition, credit rating and near term prospects of the issuer, (c) whether the debtor is current on contractually obligated interest and principal payments and (d) the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery. For certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), EITF Issue No. 99 20 requires the Company to periodically update its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized. Projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral. For securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover to amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. Once an impairment charge has been recorded, the Company continues to review the other than temporarily impaired securities for additional other than temporary impairments. Valuation of Derivative Instruments Derivative instruments are reported at fair value based upon either independent market quotations for exchange traded derivative contracts, independent third party pricing sources or pricing valuation models which utilize independent third party data as inputs. An embedded derivative instrument is reported at fair value based upon internally established valuations that are consistent with external valuation models, quotations furnished by dealers in such instrument or market quotations. The Company has calculated the fair value of the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") embedded derivative liability based on actuarial assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. Because of the dynamic and complex nature of these cash flows, stochastic techniques under a variety of market return scenarios and other best estimate assumptions are used. Estimating these cash flows involves numerous estimates and subjective judgments including those regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market returns and discount rates. At each valuation date, the Company assumes expected returns based on risk free rates as represented by the current LIBOR forward curve rates; market 25 volatility assumptions for each underlying index is based on a blend of observed market "implied volatility" data and annualized standard deviations of monthly returns using the most recent 20 years of observed market performance; correlations of market returns across underlying indices is based on actual observed market returns and relationships over the ten years preceding the valuation date; and current risk free spot rates as represented by the current LIBOR spot curve is used to determine the present value of expected future cash flows produced in the stochastic projection process. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE PROFITS LIFE Policy acquisition costs, which include commissions and certain other expenses that vary with and are primarily associated with acquiring business, are deferred and amortized over the estimated lives of the contracts, usually 20 years. These deferred costs, together with the present value of future profits of acquired business, are recorded as an asset commonly referred to as deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits ("DAC"). At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying value of the Companys Life operations DAC was $6.6 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively. For statutory accounting purposes, such costs are expensed as incurred. DAC related to traditional policies are amortized over the premium paying period in proportion to the present value of annual expected premium income. DAC related to investment contracts and universal life type contracts are deferred and amortized using the retrospective deposit method. Under the retrospective deposit method, acquisition costs are amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits ("EGPs"), arising principally from projected investment, mortality and expense margins and surrender charges. The attributable portion of the DAC amortization is allocated to realized gains and losses on investments. The DAC balance is also adjusted through other comprehensive income by an amount that represents the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs that would have been required as a charge or credit to operations had unrealized gains and losses on investments been realized. Actual gross profits can vary from managements estimates, resulting in increases or decreases in the rate of amortization. The Company regularly evaluates its EGPs to determine if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. In the event that the Company were to revise its EGPs, the cumulative DAC amortization would be adjusted to reflect such revised EGPs in the period the revision was determined to be necessary. Several assumptions considered to be significant in the development of EGPs include separate account fund performance, surrender and lapse rates, estimated interest spread and estimated mortality. The separate account fund performance assumption is critical to the development of the EGPs related to the Companys variable annuity and to a lesser extent, variable universal life insurance businesses. The average annual long term rate of assumed separate account fund performance (before mortality and expense charges) used in estimating gross profits for the variable annuity and variable universal life insurance business was 9% for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. For other products including fixed annuities and other universal life type contracts, the average assumed investment yield ranged from 5% to 8.5% for both years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company has developed sophisticated modeling capabilities to evaluate its DAC asset, which allowed it to run a large number of stochastically determined scenarios of separate account fund performance. These scenarios were then utilized to calculate a statistically significant range of reasonable estimates of EGPs. This range was then compared to the present value of EGPs currently utilized in the DAC amortization model. As of December 31, 2003, the present value of the EGPs utilized in the DAC amortization model fall within a reasonable range of statistically calculated present value of EGPs. As a result, the Company does not believe there is sufficient evidence to suggest that a revision to the EGPs (and therefore, a revision to the DAC) as of December 31, 2003 is necessary; however, if in the future the EGPs utilized in the DAC amortization model were to exceed the margin of the reasonable range of statistically calculated EGPs, a revision could be necessary. Furthermore, the Company has estimated that the present value of the EGPs is likely to remain within a reasonable range if overall separate account returns decline by 15% or less for 2004, and if certain other assumptions that are implicit in the computations of the EGPs are achieved. Additionally, the Company continues to perform analyses with respect to the potential impact of a revision to future EGPs. If such a revision to EGPs were deemed necessary, the Company would adjust, as appropriate, all of its assumptions for products accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 97, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments", and reproject its future EGPs based on current account values at the end of the quarter in which a revision is deemed to be necessary. To illustrate the effects of this process, assume the Company had concluded that a revision of the Companys EGPs was required at December 31, 2003. If the Company assumed a 9% average long term rate of growth from December 31, 2003 forward along with other appropriate assumption changes in determining the revised EGPs, the Company estimates the cumulative increase to amortization would be approximately $45 $50, after tax. If instead the Company were to assume a long term growth rate of 8% in determining the revised EGPs, the adjustment would be approximately $60 $70, after tax. Assuming that such an adjustment were to have been required, the Company anticipates that there would have been immaterial impacts on its DAC amortization for the 2004 and 2005 years exclusive of the adjustment, and that there would have been positive earnings effects in later years. Any such adjustment would not affect statutory income or surplus, due to the prescribed accounting for such amounts that is discussed above. Aside from absolute levels and timing of market performance assumptions, additional factors that will influence this determination include the degree of volatility in separate account fund performance and shifts in asset allocation within the separate account made by policyholders. The overall return generated by the separate account is dependent on several factors, including the relative mix of the underlying sub accounts among bond funds and equity funds as well as equity sector weightings. The Companys overall separate account fund performance has been reasonably correlated to the overall 26 performance of the S&P 500 Index (which closed at 1,112 on December 31, 2003), although no assurance can be provided that this correlation will continue in the future. The overall recoverability of the DAC asset is dependent on the future profitability of the business. The Company tests the aggregate recoverability of the DAC asset by comparing the amounts deferred to the present value of total EGPs. In addition, the Company routinely stress tests its DAC asset for recoverability against severe declines in its separate account assets, which could occur if the equity markets experienced another significant sell off, as the majority of policyholders funds in the separate accounts is invested in the equity market. As of December 31, 2003, the Company believed variable annuity separate account assets could fall by at least 40% before portions of its DAC asset would be unrecoverable. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Pursuant to accounting principles related to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit obligations to employees under its various benefit plans, the Company is required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the related liabilities and expenses each period. The two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes current market information provided by its plan actuaries, including a discounted cash flow analysis of the Companys pension obligation and general movements in the current market environment. In particular, the Company uses an interest rate yield curve developed by its plan actuaries. The yield curve is comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. Based on all available information, it was determined that 6.25% is the appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2003 to calculate the Companys accrued benefit cost liability. Accordingly, the 6.25% discount rate will also be used to determine the Companys 2004 pension expense. At December 31, 2002 the discount rate was 6.5%. The Company determines the long term rate of return assumption for the pension plans asset portfolio based on analysis of the portfolios historical rates of return balanced with future long term return expectations. Based on its long term outlook with respect to the markets, which has been influenced by the poor equity market performance in recent years as well as the recent decline in fixed income security yields, the Company lowered its long term rate of return assumption from 9.00% to 8.50% as of December 31, 2003. To illustrate the impact of these assumptions on annual pension expense for 2004 and going forward, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $12 and a 25 basis point change in the long term asset return assumption will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $5. CONTINGENCIES Management follows the requirements of SFAS No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies". This statement requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. The evaluation is a two step process, including: determining a likelihood of loss, and, if a loss is probable, developing a potential range of loss. Management establishes reserves for these contingencies at its "best estimate", or, if no one number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, the Company records an estimated reserve at the low end of the range of losses. The majority of contingencies currently being evaluated by the Company relate to litigation and tax matters, which are inherently difficult to evaluate and subject to significant changes. 27 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Earned premiums [1] $ 11,891 $ 10,811 $ 10,242 Fee income 2,760 2,577 2,633 Net investment income 3,233 2,929 2,842 Other revenues 556 476 491 Net realized capital gains (losses) 293 (376) (228) TOTAL REVENUES 18,733 16,417 15,980 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 13,548 10,034 10,597 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits 2,411 2,241 2,214 Insurance operating costs and expenses 2,424 2,317 2,037 Goodwill amortization 60 Other expenses 900 757 731 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 19,283 15,349 15,639 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES (550) 1,068 341 Income tax expense (benefit) (459) 68 (200) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES (91) 1,000 541 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [2] (34) NET INCOME (LOSS) [3] $ (91) $ 1,000 $ 507 [1] 2001 includes a $91 reduction in premiums from reinsurance cessions related to September 11. [2] Represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 133, as amended, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" of $(23) and EITF Issue No. 99 20, "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets" of $(11). [3] 2003 includes an after tax charge of $1,701 related to the Companys 2003 asbestos reserve addition, $40 of after tax expense related to the settlement of the Bancorp Services, LLC litigation dispute, $30 of tax benefit in Life primarily related to the favorable treatment of certain tax items arising during the 1996 2002 tax years, and $27 after tax of severance charges in Property & Casualty. 2002 includes $76 tax benefit in Life, $11 after tax expense in Life related to Bancorp and an $8 after tax benefit in Lifes September 11 exposure. 2001 includes $440 of losses related to September 11 and a $130 tax benefit at Life. OPERATING RESULTS 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $2.3 billion over the comparable 2002 period. Revenues increased due to earned premium growth within the Business Insurance, Specialty Commercial and Personal Lines segments, primarily as a result of earned pricing increases, higher earned premiums and net investment income in the Investment Products segment and net realized capital gains in 2003 as compared to net realized capital losses in 2002. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003 over the comparable prior year period primarily due to the Companys $2.6 billion asbestos reserve strengthening actions during the first quarter of 2003 and due to increases in the Investment Products segment associated with the growth in the individual annuity and institutional investments businesses. The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 is primarily due to the Companys first quarter 2003 asbestos reserve strengthening of $1.7 billion, after tax. Included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 are $40 of after tax expense related to the settlement of litigation with Bancorp Services, LLC ("Bancorp") and $27 of severance charges, after tax, in Property & Casualty. Included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2002 are the $8 after tax benefit recognized by Hartford Life, Inc. ("HLI") related to the reduction of HLIs reserves associated with September 11 and $11 of after tax expense related to litigation with Bancorp. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues increased $437 driven by strong earned premium growth within Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial, whose earned premiums increased by $496, $237 and $200, respectively. Also contributing to the growth was Group Benefits and Individual Life, whose revenues increased $75 and $68, respectively. Partially offsetting the increases described above were decreases in Investment Products, as a result of lower earned premiums in the institutional investment products business and a decline in revenues within the individual annuity operation, decreases in COLI, as a result of the decrease in leveraged COLI account values as compared to 2001, and higher net realized capital losses, which were $376 in 2002 compared with $228 in 2001. The increase in the net realized capital losses was due primarily to other than temporary write downs of corporate and asset backed securities including those in the telecommunication, utility and airline industries. Net income increased $493, or 97%. The increase was partially due to $440 in losses, after tax and net of reinsurance, included in 2001 results related to September 11 and the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other intangible Assets", which precluded the amortization of goodwill beginning on January 1, 2002. The Companys goodwill amortization totaled $52, after tax in 2001. Improved underwriting results in Property & Casualty, as well as increased net income in the Group Benefits segment also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these increases were lower net income in the Investment Products segment and 28 higher after tax net realized capital losses in 2002 compared to 2001. NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES See "Investment Results" in the Investments section. INCOME TAXES The effective tax rate for 2003, 2002 and 2001 was 83%, 6% and (59%) respectively. Tax exempt interest earned on invested assets and the dividends received deduction were the principal causes of the effective rates differing from the 35% United States statutory rate. Income taxes received in 2003, 2002, and 2001 were $107, $102 and $52, respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PER COMMON SHARE The following table represents earnings per common share data for the past three years: 2003 2002 2001 Basic earnings (loss) per share $(0.33) $4.01 $2.13 Diluted earnings (loss) per share [1] $(0.33) $3.97 $2.10 Weighted average common shares outstanding (basic) 272.4 249.4 237.7 Weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares (diluted) [1] 272.4 251.8 241.4 [1] As a result of the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003, SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share", requires the Company to use basic weighted average common shares outstanding in the calculation of the year ended December 31, 2003 diluted earnings (loss) per share, since the inclusion of options of 1.8 would have been antidilutive to the earnings per share calculation. In the absence of the net loss, weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares would have totaled 274.2. ADOPTION OF FAIR VALUE RECOGNITION PROVISIONS FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123", which provides three optional transition methods for entities that decide to voluntarily adopt the fair value recognition principles of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation", and modifies the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. In January 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of accounting for employee stock compensation and used the prospective transition method. Under the prospective method, stock based compensation expense is recognized for awards granted or modified after the beginning of the fiscal year in which the change is made. The fair value of stock based awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2003 was $42, after tax. The fair value of these awards will be recognized as expense over the awards vesting periods, generally three years. All stock based awards granted or modified prior to January 1, 2003 continue to be valued using the intrinsic value based provisions set forth in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". Under the intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined on the measurement date, which is the first date on which both the number of shares the employee is entitled to receive and the exercise price are known. Compensation expense, if any, is measured based on the awards intrinsic value, which is the excess of the market price of the stock over the exercise price on the measurement date. The expense, including non option plans, related to stock based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the effective date of SFAS No. 123. For further discussion of the Companys stock based compensation plans, see Notes 1 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table illustrates net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share (basic and diluted) as if the fair value method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in each period: For the years ended December 31, (In millions, except for per share data) 2003 2002 2001 Net income (loss), as reported $ (91) $ 1,000 $ 507 Add: Stock based employee compensation expense included in reported net income (loss), net of related tax effects [1] 20 6 8 Deduct: Total stock based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all awards, net of related tax effects (50) (59) (52) Pro forma net income (loss) [2] $ (121) $ 947 $ 463 Earnings (loss) per share: Basic as reported $ (0.33) $ 4.01 $ 2.13 Basic pro forma [2] $ (0.44) $ 3.80 $ 1.95 Diluted as reported [3] $ (0.33) $ 3.97 $ 2.10 Diluted pro forma [2][3] $ (0.44) $ 3.76 $ 1.92 [1] Includes the impact of non option plans of $6, $3 and $6 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. [2] The pro forma disclosures are not representative of the effects on net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share in future years. [3] As a result of the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003, SFAS No. 128 requires the Company to use basic weighted average common shares outstanding in the calculation of the year end December 31, 2003 diluted earnings (loss) per share, since the inclusion of options of 1.8 would have been antidilutive to the earnings per share calculation. In the absence of the net loss, weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares would have totaled 274.2. 29 The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black Scholes options pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2003, 2002 and 2001: 2003 2002 2001 Dividend yield 2.3% 1.6% 1.6% Expected price variability 39.8% 40.8% 29.1% Risk free interest rate 2.77% 4.27% 4.98% Expected life 6 years 6 years 6 years The use of the fair value recognition method results in compensation expense being recognized in the financial statements in different amounts and in different periods than the related income tax deduction. Generally, the compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123 will result in a deferred tax asset since the stock compensation expense is not deductible for tax until the option is exercised. Deferred tax assets arising under SFAS No. 123 are evaluated as to future realizability to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary. NET INCOME (LOSS) The following is a summary of net income (loss) for each of the Life segments, aggregate net income (loss) for the Property & Casualty operations and net loss for Corporate. 2003 2002 2001 Life Investment Products $ 510 $ 432 $ 463 Individual Life 145 133 121 Group Benefits 148 128 106 COLI (1) 32 37 Other (33) (168) (42) Total Life 769 557 685 Total Property & Casualty (811) 469 (115) Corporate (49) (26) (63) NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (91) $ 1,000 $ 507 UNDERWRITING RESULTS (BEFORE TAX) The following is a summary of Property & Casualty underwriting results by segment. 2003 2002 2001 Business Insurance $ 101 $ 44 $ (242) Personal Lines 117 (46) (87) Specialty Commercial (29) (23) (262) Reinsurance (125) (59) (375) Other Operations [1] (2,716) (164) (132) [1] Includes $2,604 in 2003 of before tax impact of asbestos reserve addition. In the sections that follow, the Company analyzes the results of operations of its various segments using the performance measurements that the Company believes are meaningful. 30 LIFE OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Fee income $ 2,760 $ 2,577 $ 2,633 Earned premiums 3,086 2,697 2,975 Net investment income 2,041 1,849 1,782 Other revenues 131 120 128 Net realized capital gains (losses) 40 (308) (136) TOTAL REVENUES 8,058 6,935 7,382 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 4,616 4,158 4,444 Insurance operating costs and expenses 1,535 1,438 1,390 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits 769 628 642 Goodwill amortization 24 Other expenses 189 144 117 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 7,109 6,368 6,617 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES 949 567 765 Income tax expense 180 10 54 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [1] (26) NET INCOME $ 769 $ 557 $ 685 [1] For the year ended December 31, 2001, represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 133 of $(23) and EITF Issue 99 20 of $(3). Life is organized into four reportable operating segments: Investment Products, Individual Life, Group Benefits and Corporate Owned Life Insurance ("COLI"). Life also includes in "Other" corporate items not directly allocated to any of its reportable operating segments, principally interest expense as well as its international operations, which are primarily located in Japan and Brazil, realized capital gains and losses and intersegment eliminations. On December 31, 2003, the Company acquired CNA Financial Corporations group life and accident, and short term and long term disability businesses for $485 in cash. The purchase price paid on December 31, 2003, was based on a September 30, 2003 valuation of the businesses acquired. During the first quarter of 2004, the purchase price will be adjusted to reflect a December 31, 2003 valuation of the businesses acquired. The Company currently estimates that adjustment to the purchase price to be an increase of $51 which primarily reflects the increase in the surplus of the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2003. As a result of the acquisition being effective on December 31, 2003, there were no income statement effects recorded for the year ended December 31, 2003. On April 2, 2001, the Company acquired the United States individual life insurance, annuity and mutual fund businesses of Fortis. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase and, as such, the revenues and expenses generated by this business from April 2, 2001 forward are included in the Companys consolidated results of operations. For further discussion see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues increased as a result of realized gains in 2003 as compared to realized losses in 2002. See the Investments section for further discussion of investment results and related realized capital gains and losses. Also contributing to the increased revenues were higher earned premiums and net investment income in the Investment Products segment as compared to the prior year. The increase in earned premiums in Investment Products is attributed to higher sales in the institutional investment products business specifically in the terminal funding and structured settlement businesses. Additionally, net investment income increased due to higher general account assets in the individual annuity business and growth in assets in the institutional investments business. Fee income in the Investment Products segment was higher in 2003 compared to a year ago, as a result of higher average account values, specifically in individual annuities and mutual fund businesses, due primarily to stronger variable annuity sales. The Individual Life segment reported an increase in revenues in 2003 compared to a year ago driven by increases in fees and cost of insurance as life insurance in force grew and aged, and variable universal life account values increased 30% due primarily to the growth in the equity markets. In addition, Group Benefits experienced an increase in revenues driven by increases in net investment income and earned premiums in 2003 as compared to a year ago. Partially offsetting these increases were lower fee income and net investment income in the COLI segment. The decrease in COLI net investment income for 2003 was primarily due to lower average leveraged COLI account values as a result of surrender activity. In addition, COLI had lower fee income due in part to lower sales in 2003, as compared to the prior year. Benefits, claims and expenses increased primarily due to increases in the Investment Products segment associated with the growth in the individual annuity and institutional investments businesses discussed above. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease in interest credited expenses in COLI related to the decline in leveraged COLI account values. For the year ended December 31, 2003, COLI other expenses increased due to a $40 after tax charge, associated with the settlement for the Bancorp Services, LLC ("Bancorp") litigation. For further discussion of the Bancorp litigation, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income increased for the year ended December 31, 2003 due primarily to the growth in the Investment Products segment and a decrease in net realized capital losses compared to a year ago. Additionally, Group Benefits net income increased due 31 principally to more favorable claims experience as compared to the prior year and continued expense management. Individual Life experienced earnings growth in 2003 due to increases in fee income, favorable mortality and growth in the in force business. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in COLI net income of $(33) for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the prior year period. This decrease includes the effects of a year over year increase of $29 in the charge for the Bancorp litigation. In addition, there was an $8 after tax impact recorded in the first quarter of 2002 related to favorable development on the Companys estimated September 11 exposure. The effective tax rate increased in 2003 when compared with 2002 as a result of higher earnings and lower dividends received deduction ("DRD") related tax items. The tax provision recorded during 2003 reflects a benefit of $30, consisting primarily of a change in estimate of the DRD tax benefit reported during 2002. The change in estimate was the result of actual 2002 investment performance on the related separate accounts being unexpectedly out of pattern with past performance, which had been the basis for the estimate. This compares with a tax benefit of $76 recorded in 2002. See Note 16 of Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The total DRD benefit related to the 2003 tax year for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $87 as compared to $63 for the year ended December 31, 2002. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues decreased, primarily driven by an increase in realized capital losses in 2002 as compared to the prior year. See the Investments section for further discussion of investment results and related realized capital losses. Additionally, COLI experienced a decline in revenues, as a result of the decrease in leveraged COLI account values as compared to a year ago, which was partially offset by revenue growth across the other operating segments. Revenues related to the Investment Products segment decreased, as a result of lower earned premiums in the institutional investment product business, and a decline in revenues within the individual annuity operation. Lower assets under management due to the decline in the equity markets are the principal driver of declining revenues for the individual annuity operation. The Group Benefits segment experienced an increase in revenues, as a result of strong sales to new customers and solid persistency within the in force block of business. Additionally, Individual Life revenues increased, as a result of increased life insurance in force and the Fortis acquisition. Total benefits, claims and expenses decreased due primarily to the revenue changes described above. Expenses decreased in the Investment Products segment, principally due to a lower change in reserve as a result of the lower earned premiums discussed above and a $31 increase in death benefits related to the individual annuity operation, as a result of depressed contractholder account values driven by the lower equity markets. In addition, 2002 expenses include $11, after tax, of accrued expenses recorded within the COLI segment related to the Bancorp litigation. For a discussion of the Bancorp litigation, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Also included in 2002 expenses was an after tax benefit of $8, recorded within "Other", associated with favorable development related to the estimated September 11 exposure. Net income decreased, due primarily to lower income in Other as a result of higher realized capital losses and lower income in the Investment Products segment as a result of the lower equity markets. These declines were partially offset by increases in Group Benefits as a result of business growth and stable loss ratios and Individual Life primarily due to the Fortis acquisition. In addition, the Company recorded, in 2002, an $11 after tax expense associated with the Bancorp litigation and recognized an $8 after tax benefit due to favorable development related to September 11. In 2001, the Company recorded a $20 after tax loss related to September 11. A description of each of Lifes segments as well as an analysis of the operating results summarized above are included on the following pages. 32 INVESTMENT PRODUCTS OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Fee income and other $ 1,744 $ 1,631 $ 1,724 Earned premiums 764 397 729 Net investment income 1,273 1,070 884 Net realized capital gains 27 9 2 TOTAL REVENUES 3,808 3,107 3,339 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 1,993 1,454 1,652 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 652 648 608 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits 542 444 461 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 3,187 2,546 2,721 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 621 561 618 Income tax expense 111 129 155 NET INCOME $ 510 $ 432 $ 463 Individual variable annuity account values $ 86,501 $ 64,343 $ 74,581 Other individual annuity account values 11,215 10,565 9,572 Other investment products account values 26,279 19,921 19,322 TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES 123,995 94,829 103,475 Mutual fund assets under management 22,462 15,321 16,809 TOTAL ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT $ 146,457 $ 110,150 $ 120,284 The Investment Products segment focuses on the savings and retirement needs of the growing number of individuals who are preparing for retirement, or have already retired, through the sale of individual variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment products. The Company is both a leading writer of individual variable annuities and a top seller of individual variable annuities through banks in the United States. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues in the Investment Products segment increased primarily driven by higher earned premiums and higher net investment income. The increase in earned premiums is due to higher sales of terminal funding and structured settlement products in the institutional investment products business. Net investment income increased due to higher general account assets. General account assets for the individual annuity business were $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of approximately $800 or 9% from 2002, due primarily to an increase in individual annuity sales, with the majority of those new sales electing to use the dollar cost averaging ("DCA") feature. The DCA feature allows policyholders to earn a credited interest rate in the general account for a defined period of time as their invested assets are systematically invested into the separate account funds. Additionally, net investment income related to other investment products increased as a result of the growth in average assets over the last twelve months in the institutional investment business, where related general account assets under management increased $2.4 billion, since December 31, 2002, to $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. Assets under management is an internal performance measure used by the Company since a significant portion of the Companys revenue is based upon asset values. These revenues increase or decrease with a rise or fall, respectively, in the level of average assets under management. Fee income in the Investment Products segment was higher in 2003 compared to a year ago, as a result of higher average account values, specifically in individual annuities and mutual fund businesses, due primarily to stronger variable annuity sales and the higher equity market values compared to the prior year. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased primarily due to higher terminal funding and structured settlement sales in the institutional investment business causing an increase in reserve levels and increased interest credited in the individual annuity operation as a result of higher general account asset levels. Additionally, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to the individual annuity business increased due to higher gross profits. Net income was higher driven by an increase in revenues in the individual annuity and other investment product operations as a result of the strong net flows and growth in the equity markets during 2003 and strong expense management. In addition, net income increased in 2003 compared to 2002 due to the favorable impact of $21, resulting from the Companys previously discussed change in estimate of the DRD tax benefit reported during 2002. The change in estimate was the result of 2002 actual investment performance on the related separate accounts being unexpectedly out of pattern with past performance, which had been the basis for the estimate. The total DRD benefit related to the 2003 tax year for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $81 as compared to $59 for the year ended December 31, 2002. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Investment Products segment decreased primarily due to lower earned premiums in the institutional investment products business and lower fee income related to the individual annuity operation as average account values decreased from $85.7 billion to $79.5 billion compared to prior year, primarily due to the lower equity markets. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase in 33 net investment income, primarily driven by growth in the institutional investment product business, where related assets under management increased $699, or 7%, to $9.7 billion as of December 31, 2002. Total benefits, claims and expenses decreased, due primarily to a lower change in reserve as a result of the lower earned premiums discussed above. Additionally, there was a decrease in amortization of policy acquisition costs related to the individual annuity business, which declined as a result of lower gross profits, driven by the decrease in fee income and the increase in death benefit costs. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases of $84, or 11%, in interest credited on general account assets, $61, or 6%, in commissions and wholesaling expenses, and $31 in individual annuity death benefit costs due to the lower equity markets. The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by the mutual fund business. Net income decreased, driven by the lower equity markets resulting in the decline in revenues in the individual annuity operation and increases in the death benefit costs incurred by the individual annuity operation. OUTLOOK Management believes the market for retirement products continues to expand as individuals increasingly save and plan for retirement. Demographic trends suggest that as the "baby boom" generation matures, a significant portion of the United States population will allocate a greater percentage of their disposable incomes to saving for their retirement years due to uncertainty surrounding the Social Security system and increases in average life expectancy. In addition, the Company believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader in the financial services industry. This was demonstrated by record individual annuity sales in 2003 of $16.5 billion (a 42% increase) compared to $11.6 billion and $10.0 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Significantly contributing to the growth in sales was the introduction of Principal First, a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider, which was developed in response to our customers needs. However, the competition is increasing in this market and as a result, the Company may not be able to sustain the level of sales attained in 2003. Based on VARDS, the Company had 12.6% market share as of December 31, 2003 as compared to 9.4% at December 31, 2002. Additionally, in 2003 The Hartford mutual funds reached $20 billion in assets faster than any other retail oriented mutual fund family in history, according to Strategic Insight. The growth and profitability of the individual annuity and mutual fund businesses is dependent to a large degree on the performance of the equity markets. In periods of favorable equity market performance, the Company may experience stronger sales and higher net cash flows, which will increase assets under management and thus increase fee income earned on those assets. In addition, higher equity market levels will generally reduce certain costs to the Company of individual annuities, such as GMDB and GMWB benefits. Conversely though, weak equity markets may dampen sales activity and increase surrender activity causing declines in assets under management and lower fee income. Such declines in the equity markets will also increase the cost to the Company of GMDB and GMWB benefits associated with individual annuities. The Company attempts to mitigate some of the volatility associated with the GMDB and GMWB benefits using reinsurance or other risk management strategies, such as hedging. Future net income for the Company will be affected by the effectiveness of the risk management strategies the Company has implemented to mitigate the net income volatility associated with the GMDB and GMWB benefits of variable annuity contracts. For spread based products sold in the Investment Products segment, the future growth will depend on the ability to earn targeted returns on new business, given competition and the future interest rate environment. INDIVIDUAL LIFE OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Fee income and other $ 747 $ 705 $ 643 Earned premiums (20) (8) 4 Net investment income 256 262 244 Net realized capital losses (1) (1) (1) TOTAL REVENUES 982 958 890 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 436 443 385 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 176 160 168 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 161 159 159 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 773 762 712 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 209 196 178 Income tax expense 64 63 57 NET INCOME $ 145 $ 133 $ 121 Variable universal life account values $ 4,725 $ 3,648 $ 3,993 Total account values $ 8,726 $ 7,557 $ 7,868 Variable universal life insurance in force $ 67,031 $ 66,715 $ 61,617 Total life insurance in force $ 130,798 $ 126,680 $ 120,269 The Individual Life segment provides life insurance solutions to a wide array of partners to solve the wealth protection, accumulation and transfer needs of their affluent, emerging affluent and business insurance clients. 34 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues in the Individual Life segment increased primarily driven by increases in fees and cost of insurance charges as life insurance in force grew and aged, and variable universal life account values increased 30%, driven by the growth in the equity markets in 2003. These increases were partially offset by lower earned premiums and net investment income in 2003. The decrease in net investment income was due primarily to lower investment yields. Earned premiums, which include premiums for ceded reinsurance, decreased primarily due to increased use of reinsurance. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased, principally driven by an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in benefit costs in 2003 as compared to 2002 due to favorable mortality rates compared to the prior year. Net income increased due to increases in fee income and unusually favorable mortality. Additionally, net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes the favorable impact of $2 DRD benefit resulting from the Companys previously discussed change in estimate of the DRD tax benefit reported during 2002. The total DRD benefit related to the 2003 tax year for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $4 as compared to $3 for the year ended December 31, 2002. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Individual Life segment increased, primarily driven by business growth including the impact of the Fortis transaction. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased, driven by the growth in the business including the impact of the Fortis acquisition. In addition, mortality rates for 2002 increased as compared to the prior year, but were in line with managements expectations. Individual Lifes earnings increased for the year ended December 31, 2002, principally due to the contribution to earnings from the Fortis transaction. The increase in net income was also impacted by an after tax loss of $3 related to September 11 in the third quarter of 2001. OUTLOOK The Individual Life segment benefited from unusually favorable mortality during the fourth quarter. It is not anticipated that similar experience would be likely to continue. Individual Life sales grew to $196 in 2003 from $173 in 2002 with the successful introduction of new universal life and whole life products. Improved equity markets should help increase variable universal life sales. The Company also continues to introduce new and enhanced products, which are expected to increase sales. However, the Company continues to face uncertainty surrounding estate tax legislation and aggressive competition from life insurance providers. The Company is actively pursuing broader distribution opportunities to fuel growth, including our Pinnacle Partners marketing initiative, and anticipates growth at Woodbury Financial Services. GROUP BENEFITS OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Earned premiums and other $ 2,362 $ 2,327 $ 2,259 Net investment income 264 258 255 Net realized capital losses (2) (3) (7) TOTAL REVENUES 2,624 2,582 2,507 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 1,862 1,878 1,874 Insurance operating costs and other expenses 571 541 498 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 2,433 2,419 2,372 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 191 163 135 Income tax expense 43 35 29 NET INCOME $ 148 $ 128 $ 106 Fully insured ongoing premiums $ 2,302 $ 2,295 $ 2,014 Buyout premiums 40 13 97 Military Medicare supplement 131 Other 20 19 17 Earned premiums $ 2,362 $ 2,327 $ 2,259 The Company is a leading provider of group benefits, and through this segment sells group life and group disability insurance as well as other products, including medical stop loss and supplementary medical coverages to employers and employer sponsored plans, accidental death and dismemberment, travel accident and other special risk coverages to employers and associations. The Company also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing services and reinsurance to other insurers and self funded employer plans. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues in the Group Benefits segment increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, driven by increases in earned premiums and other and net investment income in 2003 as compared to a year ago. Premiums growth was not as high as anticipated due to lower sales to new customers in 2003 and lower persistency on renewals reflecting a competitive marketplace. However, the segment reported an increase in total buyout premiums. Buyouts involve the acquisition of claim liabilities from another carrier for a purchase price calculated to cover the run off of those liabilities plus administration expenses and profit. Due to the nature of the buyout marketplace, the predictability of buyout premiums is uncertain. 35 Total benefits, claims and expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2003, which is consistent with the increase in buyout premiums previously described. Excluding buyouts, total benefits, claims and expenses decreased $43, or 2%, over the same period. The segments loss ratio (defined as benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses as a percentage of premiums and other considerations excluding buyouts) was 79%, down from 81% in 2002. Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased due to the premium growth previously described and continued investments in technology, service and distribution. The segments ratio of insurance operating costs and other expenses to premiums and other considerations was 24%, increasing slightly from 23% in 2002. The increase in net income was due primarily to favorable claims experience. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues in the Group Benefits segment increased, driven primarily by growth in premiums, which increased in 2002 as compared to 2001. The growth in premiums was due to an increase in fully insured ongoing premiums, as a result of steady persistency and pricing actions on the in force block of business and strong sales. Fully insured ongoing sales were $597, an increase of $66, or 12%. Offsetting this increase was a decrease in military medicare supplement premiums resulting from federal legislation effective in the fourth quarter of 2001. This legislation provides retired military officers age 65 and older with full medical insurance paid for by the government, eliminating the need for medicare supplement insurance. Additionally, premium revenues for 2002 were partially offset by a decrease in total buyout premiums. Total benefits, claims and expenses increased from 2001 to 2002. The increase in expenses is consistent with the growth in revenues previously described. Benefits and claims expenses, excluding buyouts, increased over the same period; however, the segments loss ratio was 81% down slightly from 82% in 2001. Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased, due to the fully insured ongoing premium growth previously described and continued investments in technology and service. The segments ratio of insurance operating costs and other expenses to premiums and other considerations was 23%, consistent with prior year. The increase in net income was due to the increase in premium revenues and favorable loss costs, which was partially offset by increased insurance operating costs and other expenses as previously described. Group Benefits incurred an after tax loss of $2 related to September 11 in the third quarter of 2001. OUTLOOK Despite the current market conditions, including low interest rates, rising medical costs, the changing regulatory environment and cost containment pressure on employers, the Group Benefits segment continues to leverage off of its strength in claim and risk management, service and distribution, enabling the Company to capitalize on market opportunities. Additionally, employees continue to look to the workplace for a broader and ever expanding array of insurance products. As employers design benefit strategies to attract and retain employees, while attempting to control their benefit costs, management believes that the need for the Group Benefits segments products will continue to expand. This, combined with the significant number of employees who currently do not have coverage or adequate levels of coverage, creates unique opportunities for our products and services. Furthermore, on December 31, 2003, the Company acquired the group life and accident, and short term and long term disability businesses of CNA Financial Corporation. This acquisition will increase the scale of the Companys group life and disability operations and expand the Companys distribution of its products and services. This acquisition is expected to be slightly accretive to earnings in 2004. Please refer to "Subsequent events" in the Stockholders Equity section of the Capital Resources and Liquidity section for information on the financing of this transaction. CORPORATE OWNED LIFE INSURANCE ("COLI") OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Fee income and other $ 267 $ 316 $ 367 Net investment income 216 275 352 Net realized capital gains 1 TOTAL REVENUES 483 592 719 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 324 401 514 Insurance operating costs and expenses 103 82 84 Dividends to policyholders 60 62 66 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 487 545 664 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES (4) 47 55 Income tax expense (benefit) (3) 15 18 NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (1) $ 32 $ 37 Variable COLI account values $ 20,993 $ 19,674 $ 18,019 Leveraged COLI account values 2,524 3,321 4,315 TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES $ 23,517 $ 22,995 $ 22,334 The Company is a leader in the COLI market, which includes life insurance policies purchased by a company on the lives of its employees, with the company or a trust sponsored by the company named as beneficiary under the policy. Until the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), the Company sold two principal types of COLI business: leveraged and variable products. Leveraged COLI is a fixed premium life insurance policy owned by a company or a trust sponsored by a company. HIPAA phased out the deductibility of interest on policy loans under leveraged COLI 36 through the end of 1998, virtually eliminating all future sales of this product. Variable COLI continues to be a product used by employers to fund non qualified benefits or other post employment benefit liabilities. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 COLI revenues decreased, primarily driven by lower net investment and fee income. Net investment income and fee income decreased due to the decline in leveraged COLI account values as a result of surrender activity. Fee income also decreased as the result of lower sales volume in 2003 as compared to prior year. Total benefits, claims and expenses decreased in 2003, primarily as a result of a decline in interest credited. This was due to the decline in general account assets as compared to 2002. This is related to the surrender activity noted above. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in insurance operating costs and expenses due primarily to a $40 after tax expense, related to the Bancorp litigation expense recorded in 2003 compared with the $11 after tax expense recorded in 2002. For a discussion of the Bancorp litigation, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income decreased in 2003 compared to 2002 principally as a result of the Bancorp litigation expense. Excluding the expenses associated with the Bancorp litigation discussed above, net income decreased $4 or 9%, primarily due to the decline in leveraged COLI account values discussed above. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 COLI revenues decreased, primarily related to lower net investment and fee income due to the declining block of leveraged COLI compared to a year ago. Total benefits, claims and expenses decreased, which is relatively consistent with the decrease in revenues described above. However, the decrease was partially offset by an $11 after tax expense related to the Bancorp litigation. COLIs net income decreased principally due to the $11 after tax expense accrued in connection with the Bancorp litigation. The decrease in net income was also impacted by an after tax loss of $2 related to September 11 recorded in the third quarter of 2001. OUTLOOK The focus of this segment is variable COLI, which continues to be a product generally used by employers to fund non qualified benefits or other post employment benefit liabilities. The leveraged COLI product has been an important contributor to The Hartfords profitability in recent years and will continue to contribute to the profitability of the Company in the future, although the level of profit has declined in 2003, compared to 2002. COLI continues to be subject to a changing legislative and regulatory environment that could have a material adverse effect on its business. PROPERTY & CASUALTY OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Earned premiums $ 8,805 $ 8,114 $ 7,267 Net investment income 1,172 1,060 1,042 Other revenue [1] 428 356 363 Net realized capital gains (losses) 253 (68) (92) TOTAL REVENUES 10,658 9,462 8,580 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 8,926 5,870 6,146 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 1,642 1,613 1,572 Insurance operating costs and expenses 889 879 647 Goodwill amortization 3 Other expenses [2] 625 559 560 TOTAL BENEFITS, CLAIMS AND EXPENSES 12,082 8,921 8,928 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE (1,424) 541 (348) Income tax expense (benefit) (613) 72 (241) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE (811) 469 (107) Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [3] (8) NET INCOME (LOSS) [4] $ (811) $ 469 $ (115) NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY UNDERWRITING RATIOS [5] Loss ratio [6] 58.7 59.6 70.3 Loss adjustment expense ratio [6] 12.1 11.2 12.5 Expense ratio [6] 26.8 28.3 29.2 Policyholder dividend ratio 0.4 0.7 0.5 COMBINED RATIO [6] 98.0 99.8 112.5 Catastrophe ratio 3.0 1.3 10.6 COMBINED RATIO BEFORE CATASTROPHES [6] 95.0 98.5 101.9 [1] Primarily servicing revenue. [2] Includes severance charges of $41 for 2003 and restructuring charges of $15 for 2001. [3] Represents the cumulative impact of the Companys adoption of EITF Issue No. 99 20. [4] 2001 includes $420 of after tax losses related to September 11. [5] Ratios do not include the effects of Other operations. Refer to the "Ratios" section below for definitions of the underwriting ratios. [6] For 2001, before the impact of September 11, loss ratio was 62.8, loss adjustment expense ratio was 11.4, expense ratio was 28.8 and combined ratio was 103.5. 37 Property & Casualty is organized into five reportable operating segments: the North American underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance: and the Other Operations segment, which includes substantially all of the Companys asbestos and environmental exposures. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Revenues for Property & Casualty increased $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003. The improvement was due primarily to earned premium growth in the Business Insurance, Specialty Commercial and Personal Lines segments, primarily as a result of earned pricing increases, as well as an improvement in net realized capital gains and losses, and net investment income. Partially offsetting the increase was a $361 earned premium decline in the Reinsurance segment as a result of the Companys decision to withdraw from the assumed reinsurance business as discussed more fully below. On May 16, 2003, as part of the Companys decision to withdraw from the assumed reinsurance business, the Company entered into a quota share and purchase agreement with Endurance Reinsurance Corporation of America ("Endurance") whereby the Reinsurance segment retroceded the majority of its inforce book of business as of April 1, 2003 and sold renewal rights to Endurance. Under the quota share agreement, Endurance reinsured most of the segments assumed reinsurance contracts that were written on or after January 1, 2002 and that had unearned premium as of April 1, 2003. In consideration for Endurance reinsuring the unearned premium as of April 1, 2003, the Company paid Endurance an amount equal to unearned premiums less the related unamortized commissions/deferred acquisition costs net of an override commission, which was established by the contract. In addition, Endurance will pay a profit sharing commission based on the loss performance of property treaty, property catastrophe and aviation pool unearned premium. Under the purchase agreement, Endurance will pay additional amounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum of $15, based on the level of renewal premium on the reinsured contracts over the two year period following the agreement. The guaranteed minimum is reflected in net income for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Company remains subject to ongoing reserve development relating to all retained business. Net income decreased $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily due to the net asbestos reserve strengthening of $1.7 billion, after tax, in the first quarter. Results for the year were favorably impacted by an increase in net realized capital gains (losses) and improved underwriting results in the Personal Lines and Business Insurance segments. Strong earned pricing and favorable frequency loss costs resulted in an increase in underwriting results in both the Personal Lines and Business Insurance segments. In addition, net investment income, after tax, rose $69 for the year ended December 31, 2003 due to higher invested assets, primarily from strong cash flows and additional capital raised during the second quarter of 2003. On September 1, 2003, the Company sold a wholly owned subsidiary, Trumbull Associates, LLC, for $33, resulting in a gain of $15, after tax. The gain is included in net realized capital gains. The revenues and net income of Trumbull Associates, LLC were not material to the Company or the Property & Casualty Operation. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Revenues for Property & Casualty increased $882, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2002. The improvement was due primarily to earned premium growth in the Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial segments, primarily as a result of earned pricing increases. The 2001 reinsurance cessions related to September 11 increased the earned premium variance for the year by $91. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in earned premium in the Reinsurance segment due to the exclusion of the exited international business, which in January 2002 was transferred to Other Operations, and a reduction in the alternative risk transfer line of business. A decrease in net realized capital losses and improvement in net investment income also contributed to the increase in revenues. Net income increased $584 primarily due to after tax losses related to September 11 of $420 in 2001, improved underwriting results across each of the North American underwriting segments, particularly in Specialty Commercial and Reinsurance, and a decrease in net realized capital losses. Partially offsetting the improvement was an increase in other expenses primarily as a result of an increase in e business research and development expenses and certain employee benefits costs, as well as expenses incurred related to the transfer of the Companys New Jersey personal lines agency auto business to Palisades Safety and Insurance Association and Palisades Insurance Co. RATIOS The previous table and the following segment discussions for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 include various underwriting ratios. Management believes that these ratios are useful in understanding the underlying trends in The Hartfords current insurance underwriting business. However, these measures should only be used in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, underwriting income and net income for the combined property and casualty segments and may not be comparable to other performance measures used by the Companys competitors. The "loss ratio" is the ratio of claims expense (exclusive of claim adjustment expenses) to earned premiums. The "loss adjustment expense ratio" represents the ratio of claim adjustment expenses to earned premiums. The "loss and loss expense incurred ratio" is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. The "expense ratio" is the ratio of underwriting expenses, excluding bad debt expense, to earned premiums. The "policyholder dividend ratio" is the ratio of policyholder dividends to earned premiums. The "combined ratio" is the sum of the loss ratio, the loss adjustment expense ratio, the expense ratio and the policyholder dividend ratio. These ratios are relative measurements that describe for every $100 of net premiums earned, the cost of losses and expenses as defined above, respectively. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates underwriting losses. The "loss and loss expense paid ratio" represents the ratio of paid claims and claim adjustment expenses to earned premiums. The "catastrophe ratio" represents the ratio of catastrophe losses to earned premiums. A catastrophe is an event that causes $25 or more in industry insured property losses and affects a significant number of property and casualty policyholders and insurers. 38 PREMIUM MEASURES Written premiums are a non GAAP financial measure which represents the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Earned premiums is a GAAP measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro rata basis over the policy period. The following segment discussions for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 respectively, include the presentation of written premiums in addition to earned premiums. Management believes that this performance measure is useful to investors as it reflects current trends in the Companys sale of property and casualty insurance products, as compared to earned premium. Premium renewal retention is defined as renewal premium written in the current period divided by total premium written in the prior period. Reinstatement premium represents additional ceded premium paid for the reinstatement of the amount of reinsurance coverage that was reduced as a result of a reinsurance loss payment. RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY The Hartfords property and casualty operations have well developed processes to manage catastrophic risk exposures to natural catastrophes, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and other perils, such as terrorism. These processes involve establishing underwriting guidelines for both individual risk and in aggregate including individual policy limits and aggregate exposure limits by geographic zone and peril. The Company establishes exposure limits and actively monitors the risk exposures as a percent of North American property casualty surplus. Generally the Company limits its exposure from a single 250 year event to less than 30% of statutory surplus for losses prior to reinsurance and to less than 15% of statutory surplus for losses net of reinsurance. The Company monitors exposures monthly and employs both internally developed and externally purchased loss modeling tools. The Hartford utilizes reinsurance to manage risk and transfer exposures to well established and financially secure reinsurers. Reinsurance is used to manage both aggregate exposures as well as specific risks based on accumulated property and casualty liabilities in certain geographic zones. All treaty purchases are administered by a centralized function to support a consistent strategy and ensure that the reinsurance activities are fully integrated into the organizations risk management processes. A variety of traditional reinsurance products are used in the development and execution of the overall corporate risk management strategy. The risk transfer products used include both excess of loss occurrence based products, protecting aggregate property and workers compensation exposures, and individual risk or quota share products, protecting specific classes or lines of business. Finite risk products may be used on a limited basis as a cost effective alternative to traditional products. There are currently no significant finite risk contracts in place and the current statutory surplus benefit from all such prior year contracts is immaterial. Facultative reinsurance is also used to manage policy specific risk exposures based on established underwriting guidelines. The Hartford also participates in governmentally administered reinsurance facilities such as the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"). To minimize the potential credit risk resulting from the use of reinsurance, a centralized group evaluates the credit standing of potential reinsurers and establishes the Companys schedule of approved reinsurers. The assessment process reviews reinsurers against a set of predetermined financial and management criteria and distinguishes between long tail casualty and short tail property business. A committee meets regularly to review activity with each reinsurer and affirm the schedule of approved reinsurers. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES The Companys net reinsurance recoverables from various property and casualty reinsurance arrangements amounted to $5.4 billion and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Of the total net reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2003, $446 relates to the Companys mandatory participation in various involuntary assigned risk pools, which are backed by the financial strength of the property and casualty insurance industry. Of the remainder, $3.5 billion, or 71%, was due from companies rated by A.M. Best. Of the total rated by A.M. Best, 92% of the companies were rated A (excellent) or better. The remaining $1.4 billion, or 29%, of net recoverables from reinsurers was comprised of the following: 5% related to voluntary pools, 2% related to captive insurance companies, and 22% related to companies not rated by A.M. Best. Where its contracts permit, the Company secures its collection of these future claim obligations with various forms of collateral including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts such as New York Regulation 114 trusts, funds held accounts and group wide offsets. The net recoverables include an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance was $381 and $211 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The significant increase was primarily related to the Companys asbestos reserve strengthening actions during the first quarter of 2003. The Companys allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance is regularly reviewed based on managements assessment of the credit quality of its reinsurers as well as an estimate for the cost (if any) of resolution of reinsurer disputes. RESERVES Reserving for property and casualty losses is an estimation process. As additional experience and other relevant claim data become available, reserve levels are adjusted accordingly. Such adjustments of reserves related to claims incurred in prior years are a natural occurrence in the loss reserving process and are referred to as "reserve development". Reserve development that increases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called "reserve strengthening". Reserve development that decreases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called "reserve releases". Reserve development can influence the comparability of year over year underwriting results and is set forth in the paragraphs and tables that follow. The "prior accident year development (pts.)" in the following tables for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 represents the ratio of reserve development to earned premiums. For a detailed discussion of the Companys reserve policies, see Notes 1, 7 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A. 39 For the Year Ended December 31, 2003 There was no significant reserve strengthening or release in the Business Insurance and Personal Lines segments for the year ended December 31, 2003. Specialty Commercial strengthened prior accident year reserves by $52 for the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily as a result of losses in the bond and professional liability lines of business. The bond reserve strengthening was isolated to a few severe contract surety claims related to accident year 2002. The professional liability reserve strengthening involved a provision for anticipated settlements of reinsurance obligations for contracts outstanding at the time of the original acquisition of Reliance Group Holdings auto residual value portfolio in the third quarter of 2000. Reserve strengthening of $94 in the Reinsurance segment for the year occurred across multiple accident years, primarily 1997 through 2000, and principally in the casualty line of traditional reinsurance. In addition, the Other Operations segment for the year ended December 31, 2003 reflects the Companys net asbestos reserve strengthening of $2.6 billion during the first quarter of 2003. For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 Reserve strengthening in the Business Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2002 was not significant. In Personal Lines, prior accident year loss and loss adjustment expenses for non standard auto were strengthened due to heavier than expected frequency, severity and litigation rates on prior accident years. In addition, the prior accident year provision was increased modestly for mold losses. Virtually all of the strengthening in Specialty Commercial is due to deductible workers compensation losses on a few large accounts. Reserve strengthening in the Reinsurance segment occurred across multiple accident years, primarily 1997 through 2000, and across several lines of business. High reported losses from ceding companies have persisted throughout 2002 and loss ratios have been revised upward. Virtually all of the reserve strengthening in the Other Operations segment related to asbestos. For the Year Ended December 31, 2001 There was little reserve strengthening or weakening by segment in 2001 with the exception of Other Operations, where the strengthening was related primarily to non asbestos and environmental exposures. (For further discussion of reserve activity related to asbestos and environmental, see the Other Operations section of the MD&A.) A rollforward of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses by segment for Property & Casualty follows: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 NORTH BUSINESS PERSONAL SPECIALTY AMERICAN OTHER INSURANCE LINES COMMERCIAL REINSURANCE P&C OPERATIONS TOTAL P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,744 $ 1,692 $ 4,957 $ 1,614 $ 13,007 $ 4,084 $ 17,091 REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 366 49 1,998 388 2,801 1,149 3,950 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,378 1,643 2,959 1,226 10,206 2,935 13,141 PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 2,346 2,324 1,130 287 6,087 15 6,102 Prior years (6) (6) 52 94 134 2,690 2,824 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 2,340 2,318 1,182 381 6,221 2,705 8,926 PAYMENTS (1,761) (2,211) (1,015) (409) (5,396) (453) (5,849) OTHER [1] (56) (60) (106) (3) (225) 225 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND 4,901 1,690 3,020 1,195 10,806 5,412 16,218 CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 395 43 2,088 496 3,022 2,475 5,497 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 5,296 $ 1,733 $ 5,108 $ 1,691 $ 13,828 $ 7,887 $ 21,715 Earned premiums $ 3,696 $ 3,181 $ 1,558 $ 352 $ 8,787 $ 18 $ 8,805 Combined ratio 95.7 95.9 99.3 135.3 98.0 Loss and loss expense paid ratio 47.7 69.5 65.1 116.3 61.4 Loss and loss expense incurred ratio 63.3 72.9 75.8 108.4 70.8 Catastrophe ratio 2.7 4.1 1.7 1.4 3.0 Prior accident year development (pts.) [2] (0.2) (0.2) 3.3 26.7 1.5 [1] Represents the transfer of reserves pursuant to the MacArthur settlement. [2] In addition to prior year loss reserve development of $94, Reinsurance had $10 of earned premiums in 2003 that related to exposure periods prior to 2003. 40 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 NORTH BUSINESS PERSONAL SPECIALTY AMERICAN OTHER TOTAL INSURANCE LINES COMMERCIAL REINSURANCE P&C OPERATIONS P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,440 $ 1,530 $ 5,073 $ 1,956 $ 12,999 $ 4,037 $ 17,036 REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 375 51 2,088 448 2,962 1,214 4,176 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,065 1,479 2,985 1,508 10,037 2,823 12,860 PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 1,943 2,244 820 492 5,499 78 5,577 Prior years 19 75 29 77 200 93 293 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 1,962 2,319 849 569 5,699 171 5,870 PAYMENTS (1,649) (2,155) (875) (551) (5,230) (359) (5,589) OTHER [1] (300) (300) 300 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,378 1,643 2,959 1,226 10,206 2,935 13,141 REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 366 49 1,998 388 2,801 1,149 3,950 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,744 $ 1,692 $ 4,957 $ 1,614 $ 13,007 $ 4,084 $ 17,091 Earned premiums $ 3,126 $ 2,984 $ 1,222 $ 713 $ 8,045 $ 69 8,114 Combined ratio 97.0 101.0 99.4 107.9 99.8 Loss and loss expense paid ratio 52.7 72.2 71.7 77.1 65.0 Loss and loss expense incurred ratio 62.7 77.7 69.4 79.9 70.8 Catastrophe ratio 0.8 2.5 0.5 0.7 1.3 Prior accident year development (pts.) 0.6 2.5 2.4 10.8 2.5 [1] $300 represents the transfer of the international lines of the Reinsurance segment to Other Operations. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 NORTH BUSINESS PERSONAL SPECIALTY AMERICAN OTHER TOTAL INSURANCE LINES COMMERCIAL REINSURANCE P&C OPERATIONS P&C BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 3,954 $ 1,403 $ 5,628 $ 1,416 $ 12,401 $ 3,892 $ 16,293 REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 195 42 2,011 234 2,482 1,389 3,871 BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 3,759 1,361 3,617 1,182 9,919 2,503 12,422 PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES Current year 1,944 2,156 897 983 5,980 12 5,992 Prior years (10) 17 28 (11) 24 119 143 TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 1,934 2,173 925 972 6,004 131 6,135 PAYMENTS (1,628) (2,055) (955) (646) (5,284) (308) (5,592) OTHER [1] [2] (602) (602) 497 (105) ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES NET 4,065 1,479 2,985 1,508 10,037 2,823 12,860 REINSURANCE AND OTHER RECOVERABLES 375 51 2,088 448 2,962 1,214 4,176 ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES GROSS $ 4,440 $ 1,530 $ 5,073 $ 1,956 $ 12,999 $ 4,037 $ 17,036 Earned premiums $ 2,630 $ 2,747 $ 1,022 $ 851 $ 7,250 $ 17 $ 7,267 Combined ratio 108.0 102.7 124.2 144.0 112.5 Loss and loss expense paid ratio 61.7 74.7 94.3 75.8 72.8 Loss and loss expense incurred ratio 73.5 79.1 90.7 114.2 82.8 Catastrophe ratio 10.0 2.7 17.9 29.5 10.6 Prior accident year development (pts.) (0.4) 0.6 2.7 (1.3) 0.3 [1] $602 represents the transfer of asbestos and environmental reserves to Other Operations. [2] Includes $(101) related to the sale of international subsidiaries. 41 IMPACT OF RE ESTIMATES As explained in connection with the Companys discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates, the establishment of Property and Casualty reserves is an estimation process. Ultimate losses may vary significantly from the current estimates. Many factors can contribute to these variations and the need to subsequently change the previous estimate of required reserve levels. Subsequent changes can generally be thought of as being the result of the emergence of additional facts that were not known or anticipated at the time of the prior reserve estimate and or changes in interpretations of information and trends. The table below shows the range of reserve re estimates experienced by The Hartford over the past three years. The amount of prior accident year development (as shown in the reserve rollforward) for a given year is expressed as a percent of the beginning reserves. The range below represents the range of such calculations for the last three years. The percentage relationships presented are significantly influenced by the facts and circumstances of each particular year and by the fact that only the last three years are included in the range. Accordingly, these percentages are not intended to be a prediction of the range of possible future variability. BUSINESS PERSONAL SPECIALTY NORTH OTHER TOTAL INSURANCE LINES COMMERCIAL REINSURANCE AMERICAN P&C OPERATIONS P&C RANGE OF PRIOR ACCIDENT YEAR DEVELOPMENT FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 [1] [2] (0.3) 0.5 (0.4) 5.1 0.8 1.8 (0.9) 7.7 0.3 2.5 3.3 91.7 1.2 21.5 [1] Bracketed prior accident development indicates favorable development. Unbracketed amounts represent unfavorable development. [2] Before the $2.6 billion of reserve strengthening for asbestos during 2003, over the past five years, reserve re estimates for total Property & Casualty ranged from (1.3%) to 2.3%. The potential variability of the Companys Property and Casualty reserves would normally be expected to vary by segment and the types of loss exposures insured by those segments. Illustrative factors influencing the potential reserve variability for each of the segments are discussed under Critical Accounting Estimates. In general, the Company would expect the variability of its Personal Lines reserve estimates to be relatively less than the variability of the reserve estimates for its other property and casualty segments. The Company would expect the degree of variability of the other segments reserve estimates, from lower variability to higher variability, to be generally Business Insurance, Specialty Commercial, Reinsurance, and Other Operations. The actual relative variability could prove to be different. BUSINESS INSURANCE OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 Written premiums $ 3,957 $ 3,412 $ 2,871 $ 2,886 Change in unearned premium reserve 261 286 241 241 Earned premiums $ 3,696 $ 3,126 $ 2,630 $ 2,645 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 2,340 1,962 1,934 1,704 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 913 779 681 681 Insurance operating costs and expenses 342 341 257 257 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ 101 $ 44 $ (242) $ 3 Loss ratio 50.8 50.7 59.9 52.3 Loss adjustment expense ratio 12.5 12.0 13.7 12.1 Expense ratio 31.8 32.7 33.2 33.0 Policyholder dividend ratio 0.6 1.5 1.3 1.3 COMBINED RATIO 95.7 97.0 108.0 98.7 Catastrophe ratio 2.7 0.8 10.0 0.7 COMBINED RATIO BEFORE CATASTROPHES 93.0 96.2 98.0 98.0 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE SEPTEMBER 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 11 WRITTEN PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] Small Commercial $ 1,862 $ 1,678 $ 1,447 $ 1,447 Middle Market 2,095 1,734 1,439 1,439 September 11 Terrorist Attack (15) TOTAL $ 3,957 $ 3,412 $ 2,871 $ 2,886 EARNED PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] Small Commercial $ 1,782 $ 1,555 $ 1,335 $ 1,335 Middle Market 1,914 1,571 1,310 1,310 September 11 Terrorist Attack (15) TOTAL $ 3,696 $ 3,126 $ 2,630 $ 2,645 [1] The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change in unearned premium reserve. 42 Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small and middle market commercial businesses primarily throughout the United States. This segment offers workers compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine coverages. The Business Insurance segment also provides commercial risk management products and services. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Business Insurance achieved written premium growth of $545, or 16%, for the year ended December 31, 2003. Growth was primarily due to written pricing increases of 9%, and new business growth of 17%. Premium renewal retention remained strong at 87%. The written premium increase in middle market business of $361, or 21%, was driven primarily by continued strong written pricing increases and new business growth. Small commercial business increased $184, or 11%, reflecting strong written pricing increases. Earned premiums increased $570, or 18%, due to strong 2002 and 2003 written pricing increases impacting 2003 earned premium. Earned premiums increased $343, or 22%, and $227, or 15%, for middle market and small commercial, respectively, reflecting double digit earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $57, with a corresponding 1.3 point decrease in the combined ratio, for the year ended December 31, 2003, despite a significant increase in catastrophe losses due largely to Hurricane Isabel and severe tornadoes in the Midwest. Before catastrophes, underwriting results improved $133, or 196%, with a corresponding 3.2 point decrease in the combined ratio. The improvement was driven by a decrease in the loss ratio before catastrophes for both small commercial and middle market, primarily due to improved frequency of loss and double digit earned pricing increases. In addition, double digit earned pricing increases and prudent expense management favorably impacted the expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2003. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Business Insurance achieved written premium growth of $541 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 19%, due to strong growth in both middle market and small commercial. The increase in middle market of $295, or 21%, was due primarily to double digit pricing increases as well as continued strong new business growth. Small commercial increased $231, or 16%, reflecting double digit written pricing increases, particularly in the property line of business. Business Insurance earned premiums increased $496 (including $15 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 19%, due to strong 2002 and 2001 written pricing increases impacting 2002 earned premiums. Middle market increased $260, or 20%, and small commercial increased $221, or 16%, reflecting double digit earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $286 (including $245 of underwriting loss related to September 11 in 2001), with a corresponding 11 point decrease (including a 9.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio before September 11, was primarily due to double digit earned pricing increases and minimal loss costs. Business Insurance continued to benefit from favorable frequency loss costs. In addition, the beneficial effects of strong pricing on the underwriting expense ratio have been offset by an increase in taxes, licenses and fees rates, and increased technology spending. OUTLOOK Management expects the Business Insurance segment to continue to deliver strong results in 2004. Although price increases within many markets of the commercial industry are expected to moderate, double digit premium growth is expected to be achieved, in part, due to continued strategic actions being implemented. These include providing a complete product solution for agents and customers, expanding non traditional distribution alternatives, executing geographic market share strategies and developing technology solutions that deliver superior business tools to The Hartfords agents and alliances. These initiatives are focused on growing the businesses, deepening market share and leveraging resources, all while developing synergies and efficiencies to streamline the cost of doing business. While loss costs are expected to increase, continued pricing and underwriting actions are expected to have a positive impact on the segments overall profitability in 2004. 43 PERSONAL LINES OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 Written premiums $ 3,272 $ 3,050 $ 2,860 $ 2,860 Change in unearned premium reserve 91 66 113 113 Earned premiums $ 3,181 $ 2,984 $ 2,747 $ 2,747 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 2,318 2,319 2,173 2,164 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 386 415 385 385 Insurance operating costs and expenses 360 296 276 276 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ 117 $ (46) $ (87) $ (78) Loss ratio 61.6 66.1 67.4 67.2 Loss adjustment expense ratio 11.3 11.6 11.7 11.6 Expense ratio 23.0 23.3 23.6 23.6 Combined ratio 95.9 101.0 102.7 102.4 Catastrophe ratio 4.1 2.5 2.7 2.4 Combined ratio before catastrophes 91.8 98.6 100.0 100.0 Other revenues [1] $ 123 $ 123 $ 150 $ 150 [1] Represents servicing revenue. WRITTEN PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] 2003 2002 2001 Business Unit AARP $ 2,066 $ 1,855 $ 1,638 Other Affinity 148 179 201 Agency 804 756 783 Omni 254 260 238 TOTAL $ 3,272 $ 3,050 $ 2,860 Product Line Automobile $ 2,508 $ 2,352 $ 2,224 Homeowners 764 698 636 TOTAL $ 3,272 $ 3,050 $ 2,860 EARNED PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] 2003 2002 2001 Business Unit AARP $ 1,956 $ 1,747 $ 1,559 Other Affinity 163 192 182 Agency 807 794 765 Omni 255 251 241 TOTAL $ 3,181 $ 2,984 $ 2,747 Product Line Automobile $ 2,458 $ 2,326 $ 2,131 Homeowners 723 658 616 TOTAL $ 3,181 $ 2,984 $ 2,747 Combined Ratios Automobile 98.0 103.1 105.8 Homeowners 88.8 93.8 92.1 TOTAL 95.9 101.0 102.7 [1] The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change in unearned premium reserve. Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and home based business coverages to the members of AARP through a direct marketing operation; to individuals who prefer local agent involvement through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market ("Standard") and in the non standard automobile market through the Companys Omni Insurance Group, Inc. ("Omni") subsidiary. Personal Lines also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through AARPs Health Care Options. The Hartfords exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, which was renewed during the fourth quarter of 2001, continues through January 1, 2010 for automobile, homeowners and home based business. The Health Care Options agreement continues through 2007. 44 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Written premiums increased $222, or 7%, due to growth in both the automobile and homeowners lines. The increase in automobile of $156, or 7%, was primarily due to written pricing increases of 10%. Automobile premium renewal retention remained strong at 91% for the year ended December 31, 2003. Homeowners growth of $66, or 9%, was largely driven by written pricing increases of 14%. Premium renewal retention was 101%. The increases in both automobile and homeowners written premiums were primarily due to growth in the AARP program. AARP increased $211, or 11%, primarily as a result of strong written pricing increases. Partially offsetting the increase was a $31, or 17%, decrease in other affinity business due to a planned reduction in policy counts as a result of the Companys strategic decision to de emphasize other affinity business. Earned premiums increased $197, or 7%, due primarily to growth in AARP. AARP increased $209, or 12%, as a result of earned pricing increases. Underwriting results increased $163, with a corresponding 5.1 point decrease in the combined ratio. The improvement was primarily due to the successful execution of the segments state specific strategies to manage pricing and loss costs. Automobile results improved 5.1 combined ratio points and homeowners results improved 5.0 combined ratio points, both due primarily to earned pricing increases and favorable frequency loss costs. Personal Lines financial performance was negatively affected by an increase in pre tax catastrophe losses over prior year of $58, or 1.6 points due largely to Hurricane Isabel, California wildfires and severe tornadoes in the Midwest. Double digit earned pricing increases and prudent expense management resulted in a 0.3 point decrease in the expense ratio. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Personal Lines written premiums increased $190, or 7%, primarily driven by growth in AARP, partially offset by a reduction in Agency. AARP increased $217, or 13%, primarily as a result of written pricing increases and improved premium renewal retention. Agency decreased $27, or 3%, due primarily to the conversion to six month policies in certain states. Earned premiums increased $237, or 9%, due primarily to growth in AARP and Agency. AARP increased $188, or 12%, and Agency increased $29, or 4%, due primarily to earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $41 (including $9 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 1.7 point decrease (including a 0.3 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. While automobile results improved due to favorable frequency loss costs, the line of business was negatively impacted by the increasing severity of automobile claims as a result of medical inflation and higher repair costs. The underwriting experience relating to homeowners has remained favorable due to improved frequency of claims, despite an increase in the severity of individual homeowners claims. An improvement in the underwriting expense ratio, primarily due to written pricing increases and prudent expense management, resulted in a 0.3 point decrease in the expense ratio over the prior year. OUTLOOK While the personal lines industry operating fundamentals are expected to be strong in 2004, the market will continue to face significant challenges. Price increases in automobile and homeowners are expected to temper. Regulatory requirements applying to premium rates vary from state to state, and, in most states, rates are subject to prior regulatory approval. State regulatory constraints may prevent companies from obtaining the necessary rates to achieve an underwriting profit. Industry rates may still remain inadequate in certain states in 2004. Loss cost inflation is expected to rise in 2004, and it is uncertain whether favorable frequency loss cost trends can continue. Automobile repair costs and medical inflation are expected to continue to outpace general inflation trends. The Personal Lines segment is expected to deliver growth in written premiums and underwriting results in 2004 due, in part, to a new auto class plan product and technology platform in the agency channel which were introduced in a majority of states in 2003. These new product and technology investments deliver a competitive value proposition to independent agents. Improved financial results in 2004 for the Personal Lines segment are also expected as a result of continued state driven pricing product and underwriting actions. Personal Lines product breadth, channel diversity and technology position this segment to effectively manage the market risks that face the personal lines industry. 45 SPECIALTY COMMERCIAL OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 Written premiums $ 1,612 $ 1,362 $ 989 $ 996 Change in unearned premium reserve 54 140 (33) (33) Earned premiums $ 1,558 $ 1,222 $ 1,022 $ 1,029 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 1,182 849 925 766 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 254 240 267 267 Insurance operating costs and expenses 151 156 92 91 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (29) $ (23) $ (262) $ (95) Loss ratio 62.5 57.6 73.1 59.5 Loss adjustment expense ratio 13.3 11.8 17.6 15.0 Expense ratio 22.9 29.3 33.1 32.8 Policyholder dividend ratio 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.4 Combined ratio 99.3 99.4 124.2 107.7 Catastrophe ratio 1.7 0.5 17.9 1.4 Combined ratio before catastrophes 97.6 98.9 106.3 106.3 Other Revenues [1] $ 306 $ 233 $ 213 $ 213 [1] Represents servicing revenue. 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 WRITTEN PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] Property $ 440 $ 405 $ 284 $ 284 Casualty 670 556 434 434 Bond 162 157 138 138 Professional Liability 324 239 168 168 Other 16 5 (28) (28) September 11 Terrorist Attack (7) TOTAL $ 1,162 $ 1,362 $ 989 $ 996 EARNED PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] Property $ 429 $ 346 $ 281 $ 281 Casualty 615 498 438 438 Bond 152 148 127 127 Professional Liability 296 200 117 117 Other 66 30 66 66 September 11 Terrorist Attack (7) TOTAL $ 1,558 $ 1,222 $ 1,022 $ 1,029 [1] The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change in unearned premium reserve. Specialty Commercial offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services. The segment provides standard commercial insurance products including workers compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large sized companies. Specialty Commercial also provides bond, professional liability, specialty casualty and agricultural coverages, as well as core property and excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by standard lines insurers. Alternative markets, within Specialty Commercial, provides insurance products and services primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self insurance groups. In addition, Specialty Commercial provides third party administrator services for claims administration, integrated benefits, loss control and performance measurement through Specialty Risk Services. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Written premiums increased $250, or 18%, for the year ended December 31, 2003, primarily due to double digit growth in casualty and professional liability. Casualty and professional liability written premiums grew $114, or 21%, and $85, or 36%, respectively, due to strong written pricing increases. While property pricing began to turn negative in the latter half of 2003, written premiums in property increased $35, or 9%, for the year ended December 31, 2003. Bond growth for the year was negatively impacted by ceded reinstatement premium. Earned premiums increased $336, or 27%, for the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to earned premium growth in the property, casualty and professional liability lines of business as a result of strong earned pricing increases. Underwriting results deteriorated $6 for the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to higher catastrophe losses compared to unusually low catastrophe losses in the prior period 46 and an increase in loss reserve development that was driven by prior accident year loss reserve strengthening of $20 in the bond and $25 in the professional liability lines of business. The bond reserve strengthening is isolated to a few severe contract surety claims related to accident year 2002. The professional liability reserve strengthening involved a provision for anticipated settlements of reinsurance obligations for contracts outstanding at the time of the original acquisition of Reliance Group Holdings auto residual value portfolio in the third quarter of 2000. In addition, an increase in doubtful accounts expense of $10 contributed to the decrease in underwriting results. Excluding catastrophes, property underwriting results continued to be favorable due to earned pricing increases and improved significantly over prior year. Casualty continued to show underwriting improvement over prior year due to a lower loss ratio. The Specialty Commercial combined ratio improved 0.1 points for the year ended December 31, 2003 as the reserve strengthening and higher catastrophes referenced above mitigated the impact of strong earned pricing, higher ceding commissions in the professional liability line of business and prudent expense management. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Specialty Commercial written premiums increased $373 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 38%, primarily driven by the property, casualty and professional liability lines of business. Written premiums for property grew $121, or 43%, while specialty casualty grew $122, or 28%, both primarily due to significant price increases and new business growth reflecting an improving operating environment. Professional liability written premiums grew $71, or 42%, also due to significant price increases. Earned premiums increased $200 (including $7 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 20%, primarily driven by robust earned premium growth in property of $65, or 23%, casualty of $60, or 14%, and professional liability of $83, or 71%, as a result of double digit earned pricing increases. Underwriting results improved $239 (including $167 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 24.8 point decrease (including a 16.5 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio before September 11 was primarily due to favorable property, casualty and professional liability results, as a result of the favorable pricing environment. Increased losses incurred in property due to the Midwest drought; casualty due to deductible workers compensation losses on a few large accounts; and bond partially mitigated the improvement. In addition, the underwriting expense ratio improved primarily due to pricing increases and prudent expense management. Lower catastrophes, primarily as a result of the Seattle earthquake in the first quarter of 2001, also contributed to the improvement in underwriting results. OUTLOOK Specialty Commercial is made up of a diverse group of businesses that are unique to commercial lines. Each line of business operates independently with its own set of business objectives and focuses on the operational dynamics of its specific industry. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, each have a unique business model and operating cycle. Although written price increases within some markets of the commercial industry are expected to moderate or possibly be negative in 2004, casualty and professional liability pricing is expected to be firm. Strong written pricing in 2003 will contribute to earned premium growth expected in 2004. Management believes that continued strategic actions being taken, which include focusing on maximizing growth in the segments most profitable lines; providing innovative new products; expanding non traditional distribution alternatives; and further leveraging underwriting discipline and capabilities will continue to enable the segment to deliver underwriting improvement and premium growth. 47 REINSURANCE OPERATING SUMMARY 2001 INCLUDING BEFORE 2003 2002 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 11 Written premiums $ 210 $ 703 $ 849 $ 918 Change in unearned premium reserve (142) (10) (2) (2) Earned premiums $ 352 $ 713 $ 851 $ 920 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 381 569 972 815 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 88 179 239 239 Insurance operating costs and expenses 8 24 15 15 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (125) $ (59) $ (375) $ (149) Loss ratio 98.2 74.9 108.9 83.7 Loss adjustment expense ratio 10.2 4.9 5.3 4.9 Expense ratio 26.9 28.0 29.8 27.6 Combined ratio 135.3 107.9 144.0 116.2 Catastrophe ratio 1.4 0.7 29.5 2.7 Combined ratio before catastrophes 133.8 107.2 114.6 113.5 WRITTEN PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] 2003 2002 2001 Traditional reinsurance $ 154 $ 618 $ 736 Alternative risk transfer ("ART") 56 85 182 September 11 Terrorist Attack (69) TOTAL $ 210 $ 703 $ 849 EARNED PREMIUMS BREAKDOWN [1] Traditional reinsurance $ 299 $ 621 $ 734 Alternative risk transfer ("ART") 53 92 186 September 11 Terrorist Attack (69) TOTAL $ 352 $ 713 $ 851 [1] The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change in unearned premium reserve. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company decided to withdraw from the assumed reinsurance business due mainly to the Companys lack of scale necessary to compete effectively in the assumed reinsurance market. On May 16, 2003, the Company entered into a quota share and purchase agreement with Endurance Reinsurance Corporation of America ("Endurance"), whereby the Reinsurance segment retroceded the majority of its inforce book of business as of April 1, 2003 and sold renewal rights to Endurance. Under the quota share agreement, Endurance reinsured most of the segments assumed reinsurance contracts that were written on or after January 1, 2002 and that had unearned premium as of April 1, 2003. In consideration for Endurance reinsuring the unearned premium as of April 1, 2003, the Company paid Endurance an amount equal to unearned premium less the related unamortized commissions/deferred acquisition costs net of an override commission which was established by the contract. In addition, Endurance will pay a profit sharing commission based on the loss performance of property treaty, property catastrophe and aviation pool unearned premium. Under the purchase agreement, Endurance will pay additional amounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum of $15, based on the level of renewal premium on the reinsured contracts over the two year period following the agreement. The guaranteed minimum is reflected in net income for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Company remains subject to reserve development relating to all retained business. Prior to the Endurance transaction, the Reinsurance segment assumed reinsurance in North America and primarily wrote treaty reinsurance through professional reinsurance brokers covering various property, casualty, property catastrophe, marine and alternative risk transfer ("ART") products. ART included non traditional reinsurance products such as multi year property catastrophe treaties, aggregate of excess of loss agreements and quota share treaties with single event caps. International property catastrophe, marine and ART were also written outside of North America through a London contact office. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Reinsurance written premiums decreased $493, or 70%, and earned premiums decreased $361, or 51%, primarily due to the Companys decision to withdraw from the assumed reinsurance business as discussed above. The decrease in written premiums also reflects the $145 cession of the unearned premium to Endurance related to certain contracts written by the Company prior to April 1, 2003. Underwriting losses increased $66, with a corresponding 27.4 point increase in the combined ratio, primarily as a result of underwriting losses on the business not ceded to Endurance and adverse loss development on prior underwriting years, primarily1997 through 2000, particularly in the casualty lines of traditional reinsurance. 48 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Reinsurance written premiums decreased $146 (including $69 of reinsurance cessions related to September 11), or 17%, and earned premiums decreased $138 (including $69 related to September 11), or 16%, due to the exclusion of the exited international business, which in January 2002, was transferred to Other Operations, and a reduction in the ART line of business. Written and earned premiums from the international business in 2001 were $131 and $136, respectively. ART written and earned premiums decreased $97, or 53%, and $94, or 51%, respectively, due primarily to the expiration of a non recurring loss portfolio reinsurance contract and the non renewal of a quota share treaty with one ceding company. Excluding ART, international and the impact of September 11, written premiums increased $13, or 2%, and earned premiums increased $23, or 4%, due primarily to significant pricing increases as a result of continued market firming, substantially offset by premium reductions due to underwriting requirements to maintain profitability targets. Underwriting results improved $316 (including $226 of underwriting loss related to September 11), with a corresponding 36.1 point decrease (including a 27.8 point impact related to September 11) in the combined ratio. The improvement in underwriting results and combined ratio before September 11 was primarily due to underwriting initiatives including a shift to excess of loss policies and increased property business mix, as well as the exit from nearly all international lines, an intense focus on returns and lower catastrophes. Underwriting results and the combined ratio were negatively impacted by adverse loss development on prior underwriting years. OUTLOOK The Company exited the assumed reinsurance business during 2003. In connection therewith, the Company will continue to manage the runoff of premium and the settlement of claims. The Company remains subject to reserve development relating to all retained business. OTHER OPERATIONS (INCLUDING ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS) OPERATING SUMMARY 2003 2002 2001 Written premiums $ 14 $ 57 $ 17 Change in unearned premium reserve (4) (12) Earned premiums 18 69 17 Benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses 2,705 171 142 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 1 Insurance operating costs and expenses 28 62 7 UNDERWRITING RESULTS $ (2,716) $ (164) $ (132) The Other Operations segment includes operations that are under a single management structure, Heritage Holdings, which was finalized in late 2001 to be responsible for two related activities. The first activity is the management of certain subsidiaries and operations of The Hartford that have discontinued writing new business. The second is the management of claims (and the associated reserves) related to asbestos and environmental exposures. The companies in this segment which are not writing new business include First State Insurance Company and two affiliated subsidiaries, located in Boston, Massachusetts; Heritage Reinsurance Company, Ltd ("Heritage Re"), headquartered in Bermuda; and Excess Insurance Company, Ltd, located in the United Kingdom. Each of these companies is primarily focused on managing claims, resolving disputes and collecting reinsurance proceeds. While the business that was written in these units on either a direct or reinsurance basis spanned a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance policies and coverages, a significant and increasing proportion of current and future claims activity arising from these businesses relates to environmental and, to a greater extent, asbestos exposures. Other Operations also includes the results of The Hartfords international property casualty businesses (substantially all of which were disposed of in a series of transactions concluding in 2001) and the international businesses of the Reinsurance segment, exited in the fourth quarter of 2001. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 The decline in written and earned premiums was due to the runoff of the international assumed reinsurance business that was transferred to the Other Operations segment in January 2002. The underwriting loss was due primarily to the first quarter net asbestos reserve strengthening of $2.6 billion as discussed in the section that follows. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 The increase in written and earned premiums reflects the January 2002 transfer of the exited international business of the Reinsurance segment to Other Operations in January 2002. The paragraphs that follow are background information and a discussion of asbestos and environmental claims, the deteriorating trends with respect to asbestos, and a summary of the Companys detailed study of asbestos reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Claims The Hartford continues to receive asbestos and environmental claims, both of which affect Other Operations. These claims are made pursuant to several different categories of insurance coverage. First, The Hartford wrote direct policies as a primary liability insurance carrier. Second, The Hartford wrote direct excess insurance policies providing additional coverage for insureds that exhaust their underlying liability insurance coverage. Third, The Hartford acted as a reinsurer assuming a 49 portion of risks previously assumed by other insurers writing primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, The Hartford participated as a London Market company that wrote both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business. With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods when theories of law are in flux. As a result of the factors discussed in the following paragraphs, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. In particular, The Hartford believes there is a high degree of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate development patterns, plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. Courts have reached inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are applied; whether particular claims are product/completed operation claims subject to an aggregate limit; and how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted. Furthermore, insurers in general, including The Hartford, have recently experienced an increase in the number of asbestos related claims due to, among other things, more intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, plaintiffs increased focus on new and previously peripheral defendants, and an increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. Plaintiffs and insureds have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings, including "pre packaged" bankruptcies, to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some policyholders have begun to assert new classes of claims for so called "non products" coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not apply. Recently, many insurers, including The Hartford, also have been sued directly by asbestos claimants asserting that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future. Further uncertainties include the effect of the recent acceleration in the rate of bankruptcy filings by asbestos defendants on the rate and amount of The Hartfords asbestos claims payments; a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims that cannot now be anticipated; whether some policyholders liabilities will reach the umbrella or excess layers of their coverage; the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos claims in a manner inconsistent with The Hartfords previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against The Hartford; and unanticipated developments pertaining to The Hartfords ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. It is unknown whether a potential Federal bill concerning asbestos litigation approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, or some other potential Federal asbestos related legislation, will be enacted and, if so, what its effect will be on The Hartfords aggregate asbestos liabilities. Additionally, the reporting pattern for excess insurance and reinsurance claims is much longer than direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or years to determine that the policyholders own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting excess and reinsurance claims adds to the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include court decisions that have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than originally intended; inconsistent decisions, especially across jurisdictions; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured. Given the factors and emerging trends described above, The Hartford believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos and environmental exposures. The Hartford regularly evaluates new information in assessing its potential asbestos and environmental exposures. Reserve Activity Reserves and reserve activity in the Other Operations segment are categorized and reported as asbestos, environmental or "all other" activity. The discussion below relates to reserves and reserve activity, net of applicable reinsurance. There are a wide variety of claims that drive the reserves associated with asbestos, environmental and the "all other" category the Company has included in Other Operations. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by those who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean up costs. The "all other" category of reserves covers a wide range of exposures, including potential liability for breast implants, blood products, construction defects, lead paint and other long tail liabilities. The Other Operations historic book of business contains policies written from the 1940s to 1992, with the majority of the business spanning the interval 1960 to 1990. The Hartfords experience has been that this book of business has over time produced significantly higher claims and losses than were contemplated at inception. The areas of active claim activity have also shifted based on changes in plaintiff focus and the overall litigation environment. A significant portion of the claim reserves of the Other Operations segment relates to exposure to the insurance businesses of other insurers or reinsurers ("whole account" exposure). Many of these whole account exposures arise from reinsurance agreements previously written by The Hartford. The Hartfords net exposure in these 50 arrangements has increased for a variety of reasons, including The Hartfords commutation of previous retrocessions of such business. Due to the reporting practices of cedants to their reinsurers, determination of the nature of the individual risks involved in these whole account exposures (such as asbestos, environmental, or other exposures) requires various assumptions and estimates, which are subject to uncertainty, as previously discussed. During 2001, the Company observed a decrease in newly reported environmental claims as well as favorable settlements with respect to certain existing environmental claims. Both observations were consistent with longer term positive trends for environmental liabilities. In the same period, consistent with the reports of other insurers, The Hartford experienced an increase in the number of new asbestos claims by policyholders not previously identified as potentially significant claimants, including installers or handlers of asbestos containing products. In addition, some policyholders had begun to assert that their asbestos related claims fell within so called "non products" coverage contained within their policies rather than products hazard coverage and that the claimed non products coverage was not subject to any aggregate limit. Based on a review of the environmental claim trends that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2001 under the supervision of the then newly consolidated management structure and in light of the further uncertainties posed by the foregoing asbestos trends, the Company reclassified $100 of environmental reserves to asbestos reserves. During 2002, as part of the Companys ongoing monitoring of reserves, the Company reclassified $600 of reserves from the all other reserve category, of which $540 was reclassified to asbestos and $60 was reclassified to environmental claim reserves. The increase in reserves categorized as environmental of $60 (as contrasted with the $100 decrease in the fourth quarter of 2001) occurred because the reviews in each of the two periods employed actuarial techniques to analyze distinct and non overlapping blocks of reserves and associated exposures. Facts and circumstances associated with each block determined the resulting changes in category. A portion of the 2002 reclassification relates to re estimates of the appropriate allocation among the asbestos, environmental and all other categories of the aggregate reserves (net of reinsurance) carried for certain assumed reinsurance, commuted cessions and commuted retrocessions of whole account business. As part of the 2002 reclassification, The Hartford also revised formulas that it will use to allocate (among the asbestos, environmental and all other categories) future claim payments for which reinsurance arrangements were commuted and to allocate claim payments made to effect commutations. As a result of these revisions, payments categorized as asbestos and environmental exposures will be higher in future periods than in prior periods. In the first quarter of 2003, several events occurred that in the Companys view confirmed the existence of a substantial long term deterioration in the asbestos litigation environment. For example, in February 2003, Combustion Engineering, long a major asbestos defendant, filed a pre packaged bankruptcy plan under which it proposed to emerge from bankruptcy within five weeks, before opponents of the plan could have a meaningful opportunity to object, and included many novel features in its plan that its insurers found objectionable. In December 2002, Halliburton had announced its intention to file a similar plan through one or more subsidiaries and in January 2003, Honeywell announced that it had reached an agreement with the plaintiffs bar that would enable it to file a pre negotiated plan through its former NARCO subsidiary, then already in bankruptcy. In January 2003, Congoleum, a floor tile manufacturer, which previously had defended claims successfully in the tort system, announced its intention to file a pre packaged plan of reorganization to be funded almost entirely with insurance proceeds. Moreover, prominent members of the plaintiffs and policyholders bars announced publicly their intention to file many more such plans. These events represented a worsening of conditions the Company observed in 2002. As a result of these worsening conditions, the Company conducted a comprehensive, ground up study of its asbestos exposures in the first quarter of 2003 in an effort to project, beginning at the individual account level, the effect of these trends on the Companys estimated total exposure to asbestos liability. Based on the Companys evaluation of the deteriorating conditions described above, the Company strengthened its gross and net asbestos reserves by $3.9 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. The reserve strengthening related primarily to policies effective in 1985 or prior years. The Company had incorporated an absolute asbestos exclusion in most of its general liability policies written after 1985. The Company believes that its current asbestos reserves are reasonable and appropriate. However, analyses of future developments could cause The Hartford to change its estimates of its asbestos and environmental reserves, and the effect of these changes could be material to the Companys consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Consistent with the Companys long standing reserving practices, The Hartford will continue to review and monitor these reserves regularly and, where future developments indicate, make appropriate adjustments to the reserves. The loss reserving assumptions, drawn from both industry data and the Companys experience, have been applied over time to all of this business and have resulted in reserve strengthening or reserve releases at various times over the past decade. The following table presents reserve activity, inclusive of estimates for both reported and incurred but not reported claims, net of reinsurance, for Other Operations, categorized by asbestos, environmental and all other claims, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Also included are the remaining asbestos and environmental exposures of North American Property & Casualty. 51 OTHER OPERATIONS CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 2003 Asbestos Environmental All Other[1] Total Beginning liability net $ 1,118 $ 591 $ 1,250 $ 2,959 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 2,612 2 102 2,716 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (161) (185) (119) (465) Other [2] 225 225 ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 3,794 $ 408 $ 1,233 $ 5,435 2002 Beginning liability net $ 616 $ 654 $ 1,591 $ 2,861 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 88 (11) 89 166 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (126) (112) (130) (368) Transfer of international lines of Reinsurance [1] 300 300 Other [5] 540 60 (600) ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 1,118 $ 591 $ 1,250 $ 2,959 2001 Beginning liability net [6] $ 572 $ 911 $ 1,753 $ 3,236 Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred 28 15 116 159 Claims and claim adjustment expenses paid (84) (172) (176) (432) Other [5] 100 (100) (102) (102) ENDING LIABILITY NET [3] [4] $ 616 $ 654 $ 1,591 $ 2,861 [1] Includes unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves. [2] Represents the transfer of reserves pursuant to the MacArthur settlement. [3] Ending liabilities include asbestos and environmental reserves reported in North American Property & Casualty of $13 and $10, respectively, as of December 31, 2003, of $14 and $10 respectively, as of December 31, 2002, and of $6 and $32, respectively, as of December 31, 2001. [4] Gross of reinsurance, reserves for asbestos and environmental were $5,884 and $542, respectively, as of December 31, 2003, $1,994 and $682, respectively, as of December 31, 2002 and $1,633 and $919, respectively, as of December 31, 2001. [5] The nature of these reallocations is described in the preceding discussions. [6] Represents the January 1, 2002 transfer of reserves from the exited international reinsurance business from the Reinsurance segment to Other Operations. At December 31, 2003, asbestos reserves were $3.8 billion, an increase of $2.7 billion compared to $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2002. Net incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses were $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in reserves as well as the increase in paid losses reflect asbestos claim and litigation trends. On December 19, 2003, Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company ("Hartford A&I") entered into a settlement agreement with MacArthur Company and its subsidiary, Western MacArthur Company. (For further discussion of the MacArthur settlement see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.) Under the settlement agreement, Hartford A&I will pay $1.15 billion into an escrow account in the first quarter of 2004, and the funds will be disbursed to a trust to be established for the benefit of present and future asbestos claimants pursuant to the bankruptcy plan once all conditions precedent to the settlement have occurred. Management expects that all conditions to the settlement will be satisfied, but it is not certain whether or when those conditions will be satisfied. In comparing environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses paid from year to year, 2003 payments reflect the final settlement of a number of disputed claims that had been in the process resolution for an extended period of time. As a result of the timing of these settlements, the Company believes the level of payments in 2003 is not representative of annual payments. Trends in asbestos paids and incurreds are addressed in the paragraphs preceding the table. All other paid losses continue to decline year to year. The Company classifies its asbestos reserves into three categories: direct insurance, assumed reinsurance and London Market. Direct insurance includes primary and excess coverage. Assumed Reinsurance includes both "treaty" reinsurance (covering broad categories of claims or blocks of business) and "facultative" reinsurance (covering specific risks or individual policies of primary or excess insurance companies). London Market business includes the business written by one or more of The Hartfords subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, which are no longer active in the insurance or reinsurance business. Such business includes both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance. Exposures on direct policies are the easiest to identify because specific policies can be associated with specific accounts and reserves established, where appropriate, for claims presented. Over the last three years, including the current reporting period, the Company experienced a reduction in newly reported environmental claims on Direct business, and actual claim payments have been made at levels within the Companys previously established provisions for loss. However, with respect to asbestos claims, the Company experienced a variety of negative trends, including increasing numbers of policyholders making claims, an apparent increase in the number of claimants under such policies, and an accelerated rate of policyholder bankruptcies. Due to the combination of these events, the Company estimates that the total value of potential claims will reach higher into the excess layers of the Companys policies and into later years of coverage than had been expected. In reporting the results of the asbestos study, the Company has divided its direct asbestos exposures into the following categories: 52 Major Asbestos Defendants (the "Top 70" accounts in Tillinghasts published Tiers 1 and 2 and Wellington accounts collectively divided into: structured settlements, Wellington, and Other Major Asbestos Defendants), Accounts with Future Expected Exposures greater than $2.5, Accounts with Future Expected Exposures less than $2.5 and Unallocated. Structured settlements are those accounts where the Company has reached an agreement with the insured as to the amount and timing of the claim payments to be made to the insured. The Wellington category includes insureds that entered into the "Wellington Agreement" dated June 19, 1985. The Wellington Agreement provided terms and conditions for how the signatory asbestos producers would access their coverage from the signatory insurers. The Other Major Asbestos Defendants subcategory represents insureds included in Tiers 1 and 2, as defined by Tillinghast. The Tier 1 and 2 classifications are meant to capture the insureds for which there is expected to be significant exposure to asbestos claims. The unallocated category includes an estimate of the reserves necessary for asbestos claims related to direct insureds who have not previously tendered asbestos claims to the company and potential non products exposures. Assumed Reinsurance exposures are inherently less predictable than direct insurance exposures because the Company may not receive notice of a reinsurance claim until the underlying direct insurance claim is mature. This causes a delay in the receipt of information at the reinsurer level reflecting changes in the asbestos tort litigation and direct insurance coverage environments. The asbestos and environmental liability components of the London Market book of business consist of both direct policies of insurance and contracts of assumed reinsurance. As a participant in the London Market (comprised of both Lloyds of London and London Company Markets), the Company wrote business on a subscription basis, with the Companys involvement being limited to a relatively small percentage of a total contract placement. Claims are reported, via a broker, to the "lead" underwriter and, once agreed to, are presented to the following markets for concurrence. This reporting and claim agreement process makes estimating liabilities for this business the most uncertain of the three categories of claims (Direct, Assumed Domestic and London Market). The following table displays gross asbestos reserves and other statistics by policyholder category as of December 31, 2003. SUMMARY OF GROSS ASBESTOS RESERVES As of December 31, 2003 % of 3 Year Gross Number of All Time Total Asbestos All Time 3 Year Total Survival Ratio Accounts [4] Paid Reserves Reserves Ultimate Paid Losses [1] [2] [5] (in years) Major asbestos defendants Structured settlements (includes 2 Wellington accounts) 5 $ 224 $ 279 5% $ 503 $ 93 9.0 Wellington (direct only) 31 628 300 5% 928 168 5.4 Other major asbestos defendants 29 179 420 7% 599 66 19.1 No known policies (includes 3 Wellington accounts) 5 Accounts with future exposure > $2.5 127 415 1,354 23% 1,769 202 20.1 Accounts with future exposure  $2.5 24 $ 107 20% 3.5 Accounts with future exposure < $2.5 593 98 18% 2.2 Other direct [2] 56 10% 1.1 Total direct 617 261 48% 2.1 Assumed reinsurance 192 36% 5.9 London market 89 16% 3.5 TOTAL GROSS ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES $ 542 100% 2.9 [1] Survival ratio is a commonly used industry ratio for comparing reserve levels between companies. While the method is commonly used, it is not a predictive technique. Survival ratios may vary over time due to numerous factors such as large payments due to the final resolution of certain environmental liabilities, or reserve re estimates. The survival ratio presented in the above table is computed by dividing the recorded reserves by the average of the past three years of payments. The ratio is the calculated number of years the recorded reserves would last if future annual payments were equal to the historical three year average. [2] Includes pools and associations, closed accounts and unallocated IBNR. [3] The one year gross paid amount for total environmental claims is $141 resulting in a one year gross survival ratio of 3.8 years. [4] Number of accounts by category established as of June 2003. The following table sets forth, for the three years ended December 31, 2003, paid and incurred loss activity by the three categories of claims for asbestos and environmental. The table shows that in this timeframe asbestos payments and incurred losses have been increasing, while environmental activity generally has been improving. During the fourth quarter of 2003, The Hartford conducted a comprehensive review of reported environmental claims which reaffirmed that its carried reserves reflect its current best estimate of future exposure. Such estimate is, however, subject to the uncertainties noted earlier. PAID AND INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE ("LAE") DEVELOPMENT ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASBESTOS ENVIRONMENTAL PAID INCURRED PAID INCURRED 2003 LOSS & LAE LOSS & LAE LOSS & LAE LOSS & LAE GROSS Direct $ 226 $ 3,113 $ 109 $ 12 Assumed Domestic 53 585 15 (3) London Market 40 286 17 (8) Total 319 3,984 141 1 Ceded [1] (158) (1,372) 44 1 Net $ 161 $ 2,612 $ 185 $ 2 2002 GROSS Direct $ 212 $ 559 $ 124 $ (9) Assumed Domestic 66 89 15 (39) London Market 35 26 24 (26) Total 313 674 163 (74) Ceded (187) (46) (51) 123 Net $ 126 $ 628 $ 112 $ 49 2001 GROSS Direct $ 173 $ 329 $ 148 $ (247) Assumed Domestic 61 63 68 (65) London Market 31 36 Total 265 392 252 (312) Ceded (181) (264) (80) 227 Net $ 84 $ 128 $ 172 $ (85) [1] 2003 environmental paid losses reflect ceded commutation settlement of previously disputed balances. OUTLOOK The Other Operations segment will continue to manage the discontinued operations of The Hartford as well as claims (and associated reserves) related to asbestos and environmental exposure. The Hartford will continue to review various components of all of its reserves on a periodic basis. 54 INVESTMENTS GENERAL The Hartfords investment portfolios are primarily divided between Life and Property & Casualty. The investment portfolios are managed based on the underlying characteristics and nature of each operations respective liabilities and within established risk parameters. (For a further discussion of The Hartfords approach to managing risks, see the Investment Credit Risk and Capital Markets Risk Management sections.) The investment portfolios of Life and Property & Casualty are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company ("Hartford Investment Management"), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Hartford. Hartford Investment Management is responsible for monitoring and managing the asset/liability profile, establishing investment objectives and guidelines and determining, within specified risk tolerances and investment guidelines, the appropriate asset allocation, duration, convexity and other characteristics of the portfolios. Security selection and monitoring are performed by asset class specialists working within dedicated portfolio management teams. Return on general account invested assets is an important element of The Hartfords financial results. Significant fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could weaken the Companys financial condition or its results of operations. Additionally, changes in market interest rates may impact the period of time over which certain investments, such as mortgage backed securities, are repaid and whether certain investments are called by the issuers. Such changes may, in turn, impact the yield on these investments and also may result in reinvestment of funds received from calls and prepayments at rates below the average portfolio yield. Net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses accounted for approximately 19%, 16% and 17% of the Companys consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the Companys return on, and the fair value of, general account fixed maturity investments, which comprised approximately 93% and 90% of the fair value of its invested assets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other events beyond the Companys control could also adversely impact the fair value of these investments. Specifically, a downgrade of an issuers credit rating or default of payment by an issuer could reduce the Companys investment return. The Company invests in private placement securities, mortgage loans and limited partnership arrangements in order to further diversify its investment portfolio. These investment types comprised approximately 17% and 15% of the fair value of its invested assets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These security types are typically less liquid than direct investments in publicly traded fixed income or equity investments. However, generally these securities have higher yields to compensate for the liquidity risk. A decrease in the fair value of any investment that is deemed other than temporary would result in the Companys recognition of a net realized capital loss in its financial results prior to the actual sale of the investment. (For a further discussion, see the Companys discussion of the evaluation of other than temporary impairments in Critical Accounting Estimates under "Investments".) LIFE The primary investment objective of Lifes general account is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets and the generation of sufficient liquidity relative to that of policyholder and corporate obligations, as discussed in the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk Life". The following table identifies the invested assets by type held in the general account as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. COMPOSITION OF INVESTED ASSETS 2003 2002 AMOUNT PERCENT AMOUNT PERCENT Fixed maturities, at fair value $ 37,462 91.0% $ 29,377 86.7% Equity securities, at fair value 357 0.9% 458 1.3% Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,512 6.1% 2,934 8.7% Mortgage loans, at cost 466 1.1% 334 1.0% Limited partnerships, at fair value 177 0.4% 519 1.5% Other investments 180 0.5% 269 0.8% TOTAL INVESTMENTS $ 41,154 100.0% $ 33,891 100.0% During 2003, fixed maturity investments increased 28%, primarily the result of investment and universal life contract sales, operating cash flows, redeployment of invested assets from limited partnerships and the acquisition of CNAs group life and accident, long term and short term disability and certain specialty businesses. In March 2003, the Company decided to liquidate its hedge fund limited partnership investments and reinvest the proceeds in fixed maturity investments. Hedge fund liquidations totaled $397 during the year. As of December 31, 2003 the hedge fund investment have been liquidated. 55 INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table summarizes Lifes investment results. (before tax) 2003 2002 2001 Net investment income excluding policy loan income [1] $ 1,831 $ 1,595 $ 1,475 Policy loan income 210 254 307 Net investment income total [1] $ 2,041 $ 1,849 $ 1,782 Yield on average invested assets [2] 6.0% 6.1% 7.0% Gross gains on sale $ 267 $ 175 $ 106 Gross losses on sale (95) (112) (120) Impairments (162) (380) (105) Periodic net coupon settlements on non qualifying derivatives [1] 26 9 (3) GMWB derivatives, net [3] 6 Other, net [4] (2) (14) Net realized capital gains (losses), before tax [1] $ 40 $ (308) $ (136) [1] Prior periods reflect the reclassification of periodic net coupon settlements on non qualifying derivatives from net investment income to net realized capital gains (losses). [2] Represents net investment income (excluding net realized capital gains (losses)) divided by average invested assets at cost or amortized cost, as applicable. Average invested assets are calculated by dividing the sum of the beginning and ending period amounts by two, excluding the collateral obtained from the securities lending program and the fixed maturities associated with the acquisition of CNAs group life and accident, long term and short term disability and certain specialty businesses. [3] Net gains on GMWB derivatives were due principally to a $4 gain associated with international funds for which hedge positions were initiated in the first quarter of 2004 and $2 due to modeling refinements to improve valuation estimates. Ineffectiveness on S&P 500 and NASDAQ economic hedge positions for the year was not significant. [4] Primarily consists of changes in fair value and hedge ineffectiveness on derivative instruments as well as the amortization of deferred acquisition costs. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Net investment income, excluding policy loan income, increased $236, or 15%, compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to income earned on a higher invested asset base partially offset by lower investment yields. Policy loan income decreased primarily due to the decline in leveraged COLI policies, as a result of surrender activity and lower sales. Yield on average invested assets decreased as a result of lower rates on new investment purchases and decreased policy loan income. Net realized capital gains (losses) for 2003 improved by $348 compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of net gains on sales of fixed maturities and a decrease in other than temporary impairments on fixed maturities. (For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see the Other Than Temporary Impairments commentary in this section of the MD&A.) 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Net investment income, excluding policy loan income, increased $120, or 8%. The increase was primarily due to income earned on a higher invested asset base partially offset by $36 lower income on limited partnerships and the impact of lower interest rates on new investment purchases. Policy loan income decreased primarily due to the decline in leveraged COLI policies, as a result of surrender activity and lower sales. Yield on average invested assets decreased as a result of lower rates on new investment purchases, decreased policy loan income and decreased income on limited partnerships. Net realized capital losses for 2002 increased $172, or 126%, compared to the prior year as a result of higher other than temporary impairments. (For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see the Other Than Temporary Impairments commentary in this section of the MD&A.) SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS Separate account products are those for which a separate investment and liability account is maintained on behalf of the policyholder. The Companys separate accounts reflect two categories of risk assumption: non guaranteed separate accounts totaling $124.5 billion and $95.3 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, wherein the policyholder assumes substantially all the risk and reward; and guaranteed separate accounts totaling $12.1 billion and $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, wherein the Company contractually guarantees either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder. Guaranteed separate account products primarily consist of modified guaranteed individual annuities and modified guaranteed life insurance and generally include market value adjustment features and surrender charges to mitigate the risk of disintermediation. The primary investment objective of guaranteed separate accounts is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets relative to that of policyholder obligations, as discussed in the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk Life". Effective January 1, 2004, these investments will be included with general account assets pursuant to Statement of Position 03 1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts" (the "SOP"). Investment objectives for non guaranteed separate accounts, which consist of the participants account balances, vary by fund account type, as outlined in the applicable fund prospectus or separate account plan of operations. Non guaranteed separate account products include variable annuities, variable universal life insurance contracts and variable COLI. The separate accounts associated with variable annuity products sold in Japan do not meet the criteria to be recognized as a separate account because the assets are not legally insulated from the Company. 56 These assets will also be included with general account assets effective January 1, 2004. PROPERTY & CASUALTY The investment objective for the majority of Property & Casualty is to maximize economic value while generating after tax income and sufficient liquidity to meet policyholder and corporate obligations. For Property & Casualtys Other Operations segment, the investment objective is to ensure the full and timely payment of all liabilities. Property & Casualtys investment strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs, regulatory requirements and tax considerations. The following table identifies the invested assets by type held as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. COMPOSITION OF INVESTED ASSETS 2003 2002 AMOUNT PERCENT AMOUNT PERCENT Fixed maturities, at fair value $ 23,715 96.4% $ 19,446 94.5% Equity securities, at fair value 208 0.8% 459 2.2% Real estate/Mortgage loans, at cost 328 1.3% 131 0.7% Limited partnerships, at fair value 168 0.7% 362 1.8% Other investments 186 0.8% 175 0.8% TOTAL INVESTMENTS $ 24,605 100.0% $ 20,573 100.0% During 2003, fixed maturity investments increased 22% primarily due to increased operating cash flow, changes in portfolio allocation and the May 2003 capital raising proceeds. In March 2003, the Company decided to liquidate its hedge fund limited partnership investments and certain equity securities and reinvest the proceeds into fixed maturity investments. Equity securities and hedge fund investment liquidations have totaled $289 and $191, respectively, during 2003. As of December 31, 2003, the hedge fund investments have been liquidated. INVESTMENT RESULTS The following table below summarizes Property & Casualtys investment results. 2003 2002 2001 Net investment income, before tax [1] $ 1,172 $ 1,060 $ 1,042 Net investment income, after tax [1] [2] $ 889 $ 820 $ 812 Yield on average invested assets, before tax [3] 5.5% 5.8% 6.0% Yield on average invested assets, after tax [2] [3] 4.2% 4.5% 4.7% Gross gains on sale $ 397 $ 282 $ 223 Gross losses on sale (125) (181) (216) Impairments (38) (199) (91) Periodic net coupon settlements on non qualifying derivatives [1] 18 15 11 Other, net [4] 1 15 (19) Net realized capital gains (losses), before tax [1] $ 253 $ (68) $ (92) [1] Prior periods reflect the reclassification of periodic net coupon settlements on non qualifying derivatives from net investment income to net realized capital gains (losses). [2] Due to significant holdings in tax exempt investments, after tax net investment income and yield are also included. [3] Represents net investment income (excluding net realized capital gains (losses)) divided by average invested assets at cost or amortized cost, as applicable. Average invested assets are calculated by dividing the sum of the beginning and ending period amounts by two, excluding the collateral obtained from the securities lending program. [4] Primarily consists of changes in fair value and hedge ineffectiveness on derivative instruments. 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 Before tax net investment income increased $112, or 11%, and after tax net investment income increased $69, or 8%, compared to the prior year. The increases in net investment income were primarily due to income earned on a higher invested asset base partially offset by lower investment yields. Yields on average invested assets decreased from the prior year as a result of lower rates on new investment purchases. Net realized capital gains (losses) for 2003 improved by $321 compared to the prior year. The improvement was primarily the result of net gains on sales of fixed maturity investments, Trumbull Associates, LLC and a decrease in other than temporary impairments. (For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see the Other Than Temporary Impairments commentary in this section of the MD&A.) 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 Before and after tax net investment income increased 2% and 1%, respectively, compared to the prior year as increased operating cash flow resulted in higher investment income on the higher invested asset base. Yields on average invested assets declined due to the lower interest rate environment. Net realized capital losses for 2002 improved by $24, or 26%, as higher other than temporary impairments in 2002 were offset by a reduction in other losses, as 2001 included losses on international subsidiary sales. (For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see the Other than Temporary Impairments commentary in this section of the MD&A.) CORPORATE Certain proceeds from the Companys September 2002 and May 2003 capital raising activities have been retained in Corporate. 57 As of December 31, 2003 and 2002 Corporate held $86 and $66, respectively, of short term fixed maturity investments. In addition, Corporate held $2 of other investments as of December 31, 2003. OTHER THAN TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS The following table identifies the Companys other than temporary impairments by type. OTHER THAN TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS BY TYPE LIFE PROPERTY & CASUALTY CONSOLIDATED (before tax) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 Asset backed securities ("ABS") Aircraft lease receivables $ 29 $ 73 $ 2 $ $ 11 $ 2 $ 29 $ 84 $ 4 Corporate debt obligations ("CDO") 21 35 14 10 12 9 31 47 23 Credit card receivables 12 9 2 14 9 Interest only securities 5 3 10 7 4 11 12 7 21 Manufacturing housing ("MH") receivables 9 14 8 9 22 Mutual fund fee receivables 3 16 2 3 18 Other ABS 3 13 5 3 3 16 5 Total ABS 82 163 31 19 40 22 101 203 53 Commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") 5 4 5 4 Corporate Basic industry 1 9 1 2 2 11 Consumer non cyclical 7 2 9 Financial services 4 6 4 4 10 Food and beverage 25 25 Technology and communications 3 142 17 2 116 42 5 258 59 Transportation 7 1 3 5 10 6 Utilities 23 37 1 17 16 1 40 53 Other Corporate 13 11 4 24 4 Total Corporate 47 185 63 9 153 64 56 338 127 Equity 21 17 9 3 5 30 20 5 Foreign government 11 11 3 14 11 Mortgage backed securities ("MBS") interest only securities 7 1 8 Total other than temporary impairments $ 162 $ 380 $ 105 $ 38 $ 199 $ 91 $ 200 $ 579 $ 196 ABS During 2003, other than temporary impairments were recorded for various ABS security types as a result of a continued deterioration of cash flows derived from the underlying collateral. A significant number of these impairments were recorded on the Companys investments in lower tranches of ABS supported by aircraft lease and enhanced equipment trust certificates (together, "aircraft lease receivables") due to continued lower aircraft lease rates and the prolonged decline in airline travel. CDO impairments were primarily the result of increasing default rates and lower recovery rates on the collateral. Impairments on ABS backed by credit card receivables were a result of issuers extending credit to sub prime borrowers and the higher default rates on these loans, while impairments on securities supported by MH receivables were primarily the result of repossessed units liquidated at depressed levels. Interest only security impairments recorded during 2003, 2002 and 2001 were due to the flattening of the forward yield curve. Impairments of ABS during 2002 and 2001 were driven by deterioration of collateral cash flows. Numerous bankruptcies, collateral defaults, weak economic conditions and reduced airline travel were all factors contributing to lower collateral cash flows and broker quoted market prices of ABS. CORPORATE The decline in corporate bankruptcies and improvement in general economic conditions have contributed to lower corporate impairment levels in 2003 compared to 2002. A significant portion of corporate impairments during 2003 resulted from issuers who experienced fraud or accounting irregularities. The most significant of these was the Italian dairy concern, Parmalat SpA, and one consumer non cyclical issuer in the healthcare industry, which resulted in a $25 and $7 before tax loss, respectively. A loss of $5 was recorded relating to one communications sector issuer in the cable television industry due to deteriorating earnings forecasts, debt restructuring issues and accounting irregularities. Additional impairments were incurred as a result of the deterioration in the transportation sector during the first half of the year, specifically issuers of airline debt, as a result of a continued decline in airline travel. During 2002, impairments of corporate securities were concentrated in the technology and communications sector and included a $110 before tax loss related to securities issued by WorldCom. During 2001, impairments of corporate securities were concentrated in the technology and communications and the utilities sectors, which included a $53 before tax loss related to securities issued by Enron Corporation. OTHER Other than temporary impairments were also recorded in 2003 on various diversified mutual funds and preferred stock investments. In 2002 and 2001 other than temporary impairments were recognized on various common stock investments, primarily in the technology and communications 58 sector, which had experienced declines in fair value for an extended period of time. In addition to the impairments described above, fixed maturity and equity securities were sold during 2003, 2002 and 2001 at total gross losses of $196, $256 and $221, respectively. No single security was sold at a loss in excess of $10, $13 and $8 during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based upon the general improvement in corporate credit quality, favorable overall market conditions and the apparent stabilization in certain ABS types, the Company expects other than temporary impairments to trend lower in 2004 from the 2003 and 2002 amounts. INVESTMENT CREDIT RISK The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit quality of obligors and counterparties, limit credit concentrations, encourage diversification and require frequent creditworthiness reviews. Investment activity, including setting of policy and defining acceptable risk levels, is subject to regular review and approval by senior management and by the Companys Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company invests primarily in securities which are rated investment grade and has established exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures for all credit risks including borrower, issuer and counterparty. Creditworthiness of specific obligors is determined by an internal credit evaluation supplemented by consideration of external determinants of creditworthiness, typically ratings assigned by nationally recognized ratings agencies. Obligor, asset sector and industry concentrations are subject to established limits and monitored on a regular basis. The Hartford is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Companys stockholders equity. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Companys derivative counterparty exposure policy establishes market based credit limits, favors long term financial stability and creditworthiness and typically requires credit enhancement/credit risk reducing agreements. Credit risk is measured as the amount owed to the Company based on current market conditions and potential payment obligations between the Company and its counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified weekly and netted, and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent the current value of derivatives exceeds exposure policy thresholds. The Company also minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high quality counterparties which are reviewed periodically by the Companys internal compliance unit, reviewed frequently by senior management and reported to the Companys Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company also maintains a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement which is structured by legal entity and by counterparty and permits right of offset. The Company periodically enters into swap agreements in which the Company assumes credit exposure from a single entity, referenced index or asset pool. Total return swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using the agreed upon index and notional principal amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value. Credit default swaps involve a transfer of credit risk from one party to another in exchange for periodic payments. One party to the contract will make a payment based on an agreed upon rate and a notional amount. The second party, who assumes credit exposure, will only make a payment when there is a credit event, and such payment will be equal to the notional value of the swap contract, and in return, the second party will receive the debt obligation of the first party. A credit event is generally defined as default on contractually obligated interest or principal payments or bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the notional value of total return and credit default swaps totaled $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and the swap fair value totaled $(33) and $(78), respectively. 59 FIXED MATURITIES The following table identifies fixed maturity securities by type on a consolidated basis, including guaranteed separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. CONSOLIDATED FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE 2003 2002 PERCENT PERCENT OF TOTAL OF TOTAL AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED FAIR FAIR AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED FAIR FAIR COST GAINS LOSSES VALUE VALUE COST GAINS LOSSES VALUE VALUE ABS $ 6,483 $ 154 $ (113) $ 6,524 8.9% $ 6,109 $ 155 $ (173) $ 6,091 10.1% CMBS 10,230 545 (44) 10,731 14.7% 6,964 607 (10) 7,561 12.6% Collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMO") 1,059 17 (3) 1,073 1.5% 909 45 (2) 952 1.6% Corporate Basic industry 4,035 286 (15) 4,306 5.9% 2,931 194 (19) 3,106 5.2% Capital goods 1,850 133 (11) 1,972 2.7% 1,399 92 (10) 1,481 2.5% Consumer cyclical 3,167 210 (12) 3,365 4.6% 1,873 121 (5) 1,989 3.3% Consumer non cyclical 3,572 236 (18) 3,790 5.2% 3,101 220 (22) 3,299 5.5% Energy 2,036 142 (10) 2,168 3.0% 1,812 137 (10) 1,939 3.2% Financial services 7,767 536 (45) 8,258 11.3% 6,454 441 (100) 6,795 11.3% Technology and communications 4,955 489 (18) 5,426 7.5% 3,972 337 (92) 4,217 7.0% Transportation 777 51 (6) 822 1.1% 707 57 (20) 744 1.2% Utilities 2,941 221 (20) 3,142 4.3% 2,371 147 (60) 2,458 4.1% Other 720 33 (5) 748 1.0% 483 23 506 0.9% Government/Government agencies Foreign 1,605 171 (3) 1,773 2.4% 1,780 162 (8) 1,934 3.2% United States 1,401 33 (4) 1,430 1.9% 764 53 817 1.4% MBS agency 2,794 43 (3) 2,834 3.9% 2,739 79 2,818 4.7% Municipal Taxable 625 19 (15) 629 0.9% 147 20 (1) 166 0.3% Tax exempt 9,445 775 (4) 10,216 14.0% 10,029 822 (5) 10,846 18.1% Redeemable preferred stock 77 3 80 0.1% 97 6 (1) 102 0.2% Short term 3,708 3 3,711 5.1% 2,151 2 2,153 3.6% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 69,247 $ 4,100 $ (349) $ 72,998 100.0% $ 56,792 $ 3,720 $ (538) $ 59,974 100.0% Total general account fixed maturities $ 58,127 $ 3,413 $ (277) $ 61,263 83.9% $ 46,241 $ 3,062 $ (414) $ 48,889 81.5% Total guaranteed separate account fixed maturities $ 11,120 $ 687 $ (72) $ 11,735 16.1% 10,551 $ 658 $ (124) $ 11,085 18.5% The Companys fixed maturity gross unrealized gains and losses have improved by $380 and $189, respectively from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003, primarily due to improved corporate credit quality and to a lesser extent recognition of other than temporary impairments and asset sales, partially offset by an increase in interest rates. The improvement in corporate credit quality was largely due to the security issuers renewed emphasis on improving liquidity, reducing leverage and various cost cutting measures. Throughout 2003, the general economic outlook has continued to rebound, the result of improved profitability supported by improved manufacturing demand, a continued strong housing market and robust consumer and government spending. The apparent economic acceleration has resulted in the 10 year Treasury rate increasing over 40 basis points since December 31, 2002 and more than 100 basis points from its low in June 2003. Investment allocations as a percentage of total fixed maturities have remained materially consistent since December 31, 2002, except for CMBS, municipal tax exempt and short term securities. Portfolio allocations to CMBS increased due to the asset classs stable spreads and high quality. CMBS securities have lower prepayment risk than MBS due to contractual penalties. The Company decreased its percentage of tax exempt municipal holdings due to alternative minimum tax implications. Short term securities have increased primarily due to the receipt of operating cash flows awaiting investment in longer term securities, securities received as part of the CNA transaction and collateral obtained related to the Companys securities lending program. Effective December 31, 2003, the Company purchased CNAs group life and accident, long term and short term disability and certain specialty business. Associated with the purchase, CNA transferred to the Company $2.3 billion of fixed maturities on December 31, 2003. The securities were recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition resulting in no unrealized gain or loss as of December 31, 2003. The acquired fixed maturities were concentrated in corporate and short term securities but did not significantly alter the Companys overall investment allocations as a percentage of total fixed maturities. The corporate securities are distributed into several sectors, most notably the financial services, technology and communications and consumer cyclical sectors. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, 18% of the fixed maturities were invested in private placement securities, including 11% of Rule 144A offerings to qualified institutional buyers. Private 60 placement securities are generally less liquid than public securities. Most of the private placement securities are rated by nationally recognized rating agencies. (For a further discussion of risk factors associated with sectors with significant unrealized loss positions, see the sector risk factor commentary under the Consolidated Total Securities with Unrealized Loss Greater than Six Months by Type schedule in this section of the MD&A.) The following table identifies fixed maturities by credit quality on a consolidated basis, including guaranteed separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. The ratings referenced below are based on the ratings of a nationally recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based on the Companys internal analysis of such securities. CONSOLIDATED FIXED MATURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY 2003 2002 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR COST FAIR VALUE VALUE COST FAIR VALUE VALUE United States Government/Government agencies $ 5,274 $ 5,357 7.3% $ 4,234 $ 4,397 7.3% AAA 15,672 16,552 22.7% 13,344 14,358 24.0% AA 7,377 7,855 10.8% 7,267 7,784 13.0% A 17,646 18,750 25.7% 15,082 16,034 26.7% BBB 16,143 17,114 23.4% 11,531 12,121 20.2% BB & below 3,427 3,659 5.0% 3,183 3,127 5.2% Short term 3,708 3,711 5.1% 2,151 2,153 3.6% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 69,247 $ 72,998 100.0% $ 56,792 $ 59,974 100.0% Total general account fixed maturities $ 58,127 $ 61,263 83.9% $ 46,241 $ 48,889 81.5% Total guaranteed separate account fixed maturities $ 11,120 $ 11,735 16.1% $ 10,551 $ 11,085 18.5% As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, 95% and over 94%, respectively, of the fixed maturity portfolio was invested in short term securities or securities rated investment grade (BBB and above). The following table presents the Below Investment Grade ("BIG") fixed maturities by type, including guaranteed separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. CONSOLIDATED BIG FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE 2003 2002 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR AMORTIZED TOTAL FAIR COST FAIR VALUE VALUE COST FAIR VALUE VALUE ABS $ 293 $ 275 7.5% $ 237 $ 209 6.7% CMBS 185 190 5.2% 196 214 6.8% Corporate Basic industry 365 381 10.4% 338 339 10.8% Capital goods 177 187 5.1% 177 180 5.8% Consumer cyclical 377 408 11.2% 289 298 9.5% Consumer non cyclical 423 442 12.1% 263 255 8.2% Energy 113 123 3.4% 111 113 3.6% Financial services 20 20 0.5% 53 45 1.4% Technology and communications 418 505 13.8% 612 571 18.3% Transportation 58 61 1.7% 44 40 1.3% Utilities 529 549 15.0% 415 376 12.0% Foreign government 416 463 12.7% 397 441 14.1% Other 53 55 1.4% 51 46 1.5% TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES $ 3,427 $ 3,659 100.0% $ 3,183 $ 3,127 100.0% Total general account fixed maturities $ 2,681 $ 2,877 78.6% $ 2,494 $ 2,443 78.1% Total guaranteed separate account fixed maturities $ 746 $ 782 21.4% $ 689 $ 684 21.9% As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company held no issuer of a BIG security with a fair value in excess of 3% and 4%, respectively, of the total fair value for BIG securities. The following table presents the Companys unrealized loss aging for total fixed maturity and equity securities on a consolidated basis, including guaranteed separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, by length of time the security was in an unrealized loss position. 61 CONSOLIDATED UNREALIZED LOSS AGING OF TOTAL SECURITIES 2003 2002 AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 4,867 $ 4,826 $ (41) $ 2,042 $ 1,949 $ (93) Greater than three months to six months 3,991 3,854 (137) 1,542 1,463 (79) Greater than six months to nine months 404 382 (22) 703 611 (92) Greater than nine months to twelve months 151 142 (9) 1,820 1,719 (101) Greater than twelve months 1,844 1,688 (156) 2,351 2,103 (248) TOTAL $ 11,257 $ 10,892 $ (365) $ 8,458 $ 7,845 $ (613) Total general accounts $ 9,234 $ 8,941 $ (293) $ 6,339 $ 5,852 $ (487) Total guaranteed separate accounts $ 2,023 $ 1,951 $ (72) $ 2,119 $ 1,993 $ (126) The decrease in the unrealized loss amount since December 31, 2002 is primarily the result of improved corporate fixed maturity credit quality and to a lesser extent recognition of other than temporary impairments and asset sales, partially offset by an increase in interest rates. (For a further discussion, see the economic commentary under the Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Type table in this section of the MD&A.) As of December 31, 2003, fixed maturities represented $349, or 96%, of the Companys total unrealized loss. There were no fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003 with a fair value less than 80% of the securitys amortized cost basis for six continuous months other than certain asset backed and commercial mortgage backed securities. Other than temporary impairments for certain asset backed and commercial mortgage backed securities are recognized if the fair value of the security, as determined by external pricing sources, is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the expected cash flows since the last reporting period. There were no asset backed or commercial mortgage backed securities included in the table above, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, for which managements best estimate of future cash flows adversely changed during the reporting period. As of December 31, 2003, no asset backed or commercial mortgage backed securities had an unrealized loss in excess of $15. (For a further discussion of the other than temporary impairments criteria, see "Investments" included in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A and in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss position in excess of 5% and 6% of the total unrealized loss amount as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The total securities in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months by type as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented in the following table. CONSOLIDATED TOTAL SECURITIES WITH UNREALIZED LOSS GREATER THAN SIX MONTHS BY TYPE 2003 2002 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF TOTAL TOTAL AMORTIZED FAIR UNREALIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED FAIR UNREALIZED UNREALIZED COST VALUE LOSS LOSS COST VALUE LOSS LOSS ABS and CMBS Aircraft lease receivables $ 174 $ 116 $ (58) 31.0% $ 94 $ 79 $ (15) 3.4% CDOs 176 153 (23) 12.3% 262 217 (45) 10.2% Credit card receivables 123 111 (12) 6.4% 408 359 (49) 11.1% Other ABS and CMBS 693 673 (20) 10.7% 784 768 (16) 3.6% Corporate Financial services 747 710 (37) 19.8% 910 831 (79) 17.9% Technology and communications 55 52 (3) 1.6% 609 536 (73) 16.6% Transportation 42 38 (4) 2.1% 89 72 (17) 3.9% Utilities 103 95 (8) 4.3% 361 325 (36) 8.2% Other 268 248 (20) 10.7% 821 781 (40) 9.1% Diversified equity mutual funds 4 4 113 88 (25) 5.7% Other securities 14 12 (2) 1.1% 423 377 (46) 10.3% TOTAL $ 2,399 $ 2,212 $ (187) 100.0% $ 4,874 $ 4,433 $ (441) 100.0% Total general accounts $ 1,760 $ 1,619 $ (141) 75.4% $ 3,597 $ 3,258 $ (339) 76.9% Total guaranteed separate accounts $ 639 $ 593 $ (46) 24.6% $ 1,277 $ 1,175 $ (102) 23.1% The ABS securities in an unrealized loss position for six months or more as of December 31, 2003, were primarily supported by aircraft lease receivables, CDOs and credit card receivables. The Companys current view of risk factors relative to these fixed maturity types is as follows: AIRCRAFT LEASE RECEIVABLES The securities supported by aircraft lease receivables continued to decline in value during 2003 due to a reduction in lease payments and aircraft values driven by a prolonged decline in airline travel, which has resulted in the financial difficulties of many airline carriers. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the timing of any 62 potential recovery in this industry, significant risk premiums have been required by the market for these securities, resulting in reduced liquidity and lower broker quoted prices. Air travel began to improve in the second half of 2003, which resulted in lease rates stabilizing on certain aircrafts. While the Company saw some modest price increases and greater liquidity in this sector during the fourth quarter of 2003, additional price recovery will depend on continued improvement in economic fundamentals, political stability and airline operating performance. CDOS Adverse CDO experience can be attributed to higher than expected default rates and downgrades of the collateral supporting these securities, particularly in the technology and utilities sectors, causing a deterioration in the subordinated tranches of these structures. As a result, significant risk premiums have been required by the market for these securities, resulting in reduced liquidity and lower broker quoted prices. Improved economic and operating fundamentals of the underlying security issuers, along with better market liquidity, should lead to improved pricing levels. CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES The unrealized loss position in credit card securities has primarily been caused by exposure to companies originating loans to sub prime borrowers. While the unrealized loss position improved for these holdings during the year due to the better than expected performance of the underlying collateral of credit card receivables, concerns remain regarding the long term viability of certain issuers within this sub sector. As of December 31, 2003, security types other than ABS and CMBS that were in a significant unrealized loss position for greater than six months were corporate fixed maturities primarily within the financial services sector. FINANCIAL SERVICES As of December 31, 2003, the securities in the financial services sector unrealized loss position for greater than six months were comprised of approximately 50 different securities. The securities in this category are primarily investment grade and substantially all of these securities are priced at or greater than 90% of amortized cost as of December 31, 2003. These positions are primarily variable rate securities with extended maturity dates, which have been adversely impacted by the reduction in forward interest rates resulting in lower expected cash flows. Unrealized loss amounts for these securities have declined during the year as interest rates have risen. Additional changes in fair value of these securities are primarily dependent on future changes in forward interest rates. A substantial percentage of these securities are currently hedged with interest rate swaps, which convert the variable rate earned on the securities to a fixed amount. The swaps receive cash flow hedge accounting treatment and are currently in an unrealized gain position. As part of the Companys ongoing security monitoring process by a committee of investment and accounting professionals, the Company has reviewed its investment portfolio and concluded that there were no additional other than temporary impairments as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Due to the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms and the expectation that they will continue to do so, managements intent and ability to hold these securities, as well as the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition and other objective evidence, the Company believes that the prices of the securities in the sectors identified above were temporarily depressed. The evaluation for other than temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties in the determination of whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers financial condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. In addition, for securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (e.g. ABS and CMBS), projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral. As of December 31, 2003, managements expectation of the discounted future cash flows on these securities was in excess of the associated securities amortized cost. (For a further discussion, see "Investments" included in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of MD&A and in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The following table presents the Companys unrealized loss aging for BIG and equity securities on a consolidated basis, including guaranteed separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. CONSOLIDATED UNREALIZED LOSS AGING OF BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES 2003 2002 AMORTIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED UNREALIZED COST FAIR VALUE LOSS COST FAIR VALUE LOSS Three months or less $ 133 $ 129 $ (4) $ 274 $ 229 $ (45) Greater than three months to six months 134 129 (5) 308 267 (41) Greater than six months to nine months 81 73 (8) 266 213 (53) Greater than nine months to twelve months 18 17 (1) 576 515 (61) Greater than twelve months 417 349 (68) 610 517 (93) TOTAL $ 783 $ 697 $ (86) $ 2,034 $ 1,741 $ (293) Total general accounts $ 663 $ 593 $ (70) $ 1,702 $ 1,444 $ (258) Total guaranteed separate accounts $ 120 $ 104 $ (16) $ 332 $ 297 $ (35) Similar to the decrease in the Consolidated Unrealized Loss Aging of Total Securities table from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003, the decrease in the BIG and equity security unrealized loss amount was primarily the result of improved corporate fixed maturity credit quality and to a lesser extent recognition of other than temporary impairments and asset sales, partially offset by an increase in interest rates. (For a further discussion, see the economic commentary under the 63 Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Type table in this section of the MD&A.) The BIG and equity securities in an unrealized loss position for longer than six months by type as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented in the following table. CONSOLIDATED BIG AND EQUITY SECURITIES WITH UNREALIZED LOSS GREATER THAN SIX MONTHS BY TYPE 2003 2002 PERCENT OF PERCENT OF TOTAL TOTAL AMORTIZED FAIR UNREALIZED UNREALIZED AMORTIZED FAIR UNREALIZED UNREALIZED COST VALUE LOSS LOSS COST VALUE LOSS LOSS ABS and CMBS Aircraft lease receivables $ 55 $ 36 $ (19) 24.6% $ 4 $ 2 $ (2) 1.0% CDOs 44 34 (10) 13.0% 4 2 (2) 1.0% Credit card receivables 45 34 (11) 14.3% 36 23 (13) 6.3% Other ABS and CMBS 59 49 (10) 13.0% 45 39 (6) 2.9% Corporate Financial services 142 128 (14) 18.2% 141 131 (10) 4.8% Technology and communications 6 6 325 267 (58) 28.0% Transportation 21 18 (3) 3.9% 33 26 (7) 3.4% Utilities 76 70 (6) 7.8% 209 182 (27) 13.0% Other 63 59 (4) 5.2% 379 346 (33) 15.9% Diversified equity mutual funds 4 4 113 88 (25) 12.1% Other securities 1 1 163 139 (24) 11.6% TOTAL $ 516 $ 439 $ (77) 100.0% $ 1,452 $ 1,245 $(207) 100.0% Total general accounts $ 417 $ 355 $ (62) 80.5% $ 1,191 $ 1,012 $(179) 86.5% Total guaranteed separate accounts $ 99 $ 84 $ (15) 19.5% $ 261 $ 233 $ (28) 13.5% (For a further discussion of the Companys current view of risk factors relative to certain security types listed above, see the Consolidated Total Securities with Unrealized Loss Greater Than Six Months by Type table in this section of the MD&A.) CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT The Hartford has a disciplined approach to managing risks associated with its capital markets and asset/liability management activities. Investment portfolio management is organized to focus investment management expertise on specific classes of investments, while asset/liability management is the responsibility of dedicated risk management units supporting Life, including guaranteed separate accounts, and Property & Casualty operations. Derivative instruments are utilized in compliance with established Company policy and regulatory requirements and are monitored internally and reviewed by senior management. Derivatives play an important role in facilitating the management of interest rate risk, mitigating equity market risk exposure associated with certain variable annuity products and changes in currency exchange rates. MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risk, primarily relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates, market indices or foreign currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk The Companys exposure to interest rate risk relates to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with the changes in market interest rates. The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risk through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. Measures the Company uses to quantify its exposure to interest rate risk inherent in its invested assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities are duration and key rate duration. Duration is the weighted average term to maturity of a securitys cash flows, and is used to approximate the percentage change in the price of a security for a 100 basis point change in market interest rates. For example, a duration of 5 means the price of the security will change by approximately 5% for a 1% change in interest rates. The key rate duration analysis considers the expected future cash flows of assets and liabilities assuming non parallel interest rate movements. To calculate duration, projections of asset and liability cash flows are discounted to a present value using interest rate assumptions. These cash flows are then revalued at alternative interest rate levels to determine the percentage change in fair value due to an incremental change in rates. Cash flows from corporate obligations are assumed to be consistent with the contractual payment streams on a yield to worst basis. The primary assumptions used in calculating cash flow projections include expected asset payment streams taking into account prepayment speeds, issuer call options and contract holder behavior. Asset backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities are modeled based on estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived from prepayment speeds previously experienced at the interest rate levels 64 projected for the underlying collateral. Actual prepayment experience may vary from these estimates. The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption associated with the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit obligation. The discount rate assumption is based upon an interest rate yield curve comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. Declines in long term interest rates have had a negative impact on the funded status of the plans. (For a further discussion of interest rate risk associated with the plans, see Capital Resources and Liquidity, "Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits" and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Equity Risk The Companys primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of the Lifes businesses such as variable annuities where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, Life offers certain guaranteed benefits, primarily associated with variable annuity products, which increases the Companys potential benefit exposure as the equity markets decline. (For a further discussion, see the Life "Equity Risk" section.) The Company does not have significant equity risk exposure from invested assets. In March 2003, the Company decided to liquidate its hedge fund limited partnership investments and certain equity securities and reinvest the proceeds into fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing its exposure to equity price risk. The Company has not materially changed other aspects of its overall asset allocation position or market risk since December 31, 2002. The Company is also subject to equity risk based upon the expected long term rate of return assumption associated with the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit obligation. The Company determines the long term rate of return assumption for the plans portfolios based upon an analysis of historical returns. Declines in equity returns have had a negative impact on the funded status of the plans. (For a further discussion of equity risk associated with the plans, see Capital Resources and Liquidity, "Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits" and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Companys currency exchange risk is related to non US dollar denominated investments, which primarily consist of fixed maturity investments and the investment in the Japanese Life operation. A significant portion of the Companys foreign currency exposure is mitigated through the use of derivatives. Derivative Instruments The Hartford utilizes a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards, futures and options, in compliance with Company policy and regulatory requirements to mitigate interest rate, equity market or currency exchange rate risk or volatility. Interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using the agreed upon rates and notional principal amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value. Interest rate cap and floor contracts entitle the purchaser to receive from the issuer at specified dates, the amount, if any, by which a specified market rate exceeds the cap strike rate or falls below the floor strike rate, applied to a notional principal amount. A premium payment is made by the purchaser of the contract at its inception, and no principal payments are exchanged. Forward contracts are customized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Financial futures are standardized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges. Margin requirements for futures are met by pledging securities, and changes in the futures contract values are settled daily in cash. Option contracts grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer a financial instrument at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. Foreign currency swaps exchange an initial principal amount in two currencies, agreeing to re exchange the currencies at a future date, at an agreed upon exchange rate. There is also periodic exchange of payments at specified intervals calculated using the agreed upon rates and exchanged principal amounts. Derivative activities are monitored by an internal compliance unit, reviewed frequently by senior management and reported to the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated and are not reflective of credit risk. Notional amounts pertaining to derivative instruments used in the management of market risk for both the general and guaranteed separate accounts at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $37.3 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively. The increase in the derivative notional amount during 2003 was primarily due to the embedded derivatives and reinsurance contract associated with the GMWB product feature. The following discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within Life and Property & Casualty portfolios. 65 LIFE Life is responsible for maximizing after tax returns within acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets and the generation of sufficient liquidity to support policyholder and corporate obligations. Lifes fixed maturity portfolios and certain investment contracts and insurance product liabilities have material market exposure to interest rate risk. In addition, Lifes operations are significantly influenced by changes in the equity markets. Lifes profitability depends largely on the amount of assets under management, which is primarily driven by the level of sales, equity market appreciation and depreciation and the persistency of the in force block of business. Lifes foreign currency exposure is primarily related to non US dollar denominated fixed income securities and the investment in the Japanese Life operation. Interest Rate Risk Lifes exposure to interest rate risk relates to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can potentially impact Lifes profitability. In certain scenarios where interest rates are volatile, Life could be exposed to disintermediation risk and a reduction in net interest rate spread or profit margins. The investments and liabilities primarily associated with interest rate risk are included in the following discussion. Certain product liabilities, including those containing guaranteed minimum withdrawal or death benefits, expose the Company to interest rate risk but also have significant equity risk. These liabilities are discussed as part of the Equity Risk section below. Fixed Maturity Investments Lifes general account and guaranteed separate account investment portfolios primarily consist of investment grade fixed maturity securities, including corporate bonds, asset backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, tax exempt municipal securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. The fair value of these investments was $49.2 billion and $40.5 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair value of these and Lifes other invested assets fluctuates depending on the interest rate environment and other general economic conditions. During periods of declining interest rates, paydowns on mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations increase as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the rate of prepayments generally declines, exposing the Company to the possibility of asset/liability cash flow and yield mismatch. The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was approximately 4.8 and 4.5 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Liabilities Lifes investment contracts and certain insurance product liabilities, other than non guaranteed separate accounts, include asset accumulation vehicles such as fixed annuities, guaranteed investment contracts, other investment and universal life type contracts and other insurance products such as long term disability. Asset accumulation vehicles primarily require a fixed rate payment, often for a specified period of time. Product examples include fixed rate annuities with a market value adjustment feature and fixed rate guaranteed investment contracts. The duration of these contracts generally range from less than one year to ten years. In addition, certain products such as universal life contracts and the general account portion of Lifes variable annuity products, credit interest to policyholders subject to market conditions and minimum interest rate guarantees. The duration of these products is short to intermediate term. While interest rate risk associated with many of these products has been reduced through the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, the primary risk associated with these products is that the spread between investment return and credited rate may not be sufficient to earn targeted returns. The Company also manages the risk of other insurance liabilities similarly to investment type products due to the relative predictability of the aggregate cash flow payment streams. Products in this category may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity) pricing and cash flow risks. Product examples include structured settlement contracts, on benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is currently receiving benefits thereon) and short and long term disability contracts. The cash out flows associated with these policy liabilities are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are that the benefits will exceed expected actuarial pricing and or that the actual timing of the cash flows differ from those anticipated, resulting in an investment return lower than that assumed in pricing. Contract duration can range from less than one year to typically up to ten years. Product Liability Characteristics Lifes product liabilities, other than non guaranteed separate accounts, include accumulation vehicles such as fixed and variable annuities, other investment and universal life type contracts, and other insurance products such as long term disability and term life insurance. The table below shows carrying values of insurance policy liabilities as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. 2003 2002 DESCRIPTION TOTAL TOTAL Fixed rate asset accumulation vehicles $ 14.6 $ 13.6 Weighted average credited rate 6.0% 5.8% Indexed asset accumulation vehicles $ 1.6 $ 0.7 Weighted average credited rate 1.8% 3.0% Interest credited asset accumulation vehicles $ 17.2 $ 16.0 Weighted average credited rate 3.8% 4.2% Long term pay out liabilities $ 11.8 $ 9.1 Short term pay out liabilities $ 1.2 $ 1.0 Life employs several risk management tools to quantify and manage risk arising from investment contracts and other insurance liabilities, such as duration and key rate duration and the use of derivative instruments. For certain portfolios, management monitors the changes in present value between 66 assets and liabilities resulting from various interest rate scenarios using integrated asset/liability measurement systems and a proprietary system that simulates the impacts of parallel and non parallel yield curve shifts. Based on this current and prospective information, management implements risk reducing techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities, including the use of derivative instruments. Derivatives used to mitigate interest rate risk are discussed in more detail below. Derivatives Life utilizes a variety of derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps are primarily used to convert interest receipts to a fixed or variable rate. In addition, interest rate swaps are used to convert the contract rate on certain liability products offered by the Company into a rate that trades in a more liquid and efficient market. The use of such swaps enables the Company to customize contract terms and conditions to customer objectives and satisfies the operations asset/liability duration matching policy. Occasionally, swaps are also used to hedge the variability in the cash flow of a forecasted purchase or sale due to changes in interest rates. Interest rate caps and floors, swaptions and option contracts are primarily used to hedge against the risk of liability contract holder disintermediation in a rising interest rate environment, and to offset the changes in fair value of corresponding derivatives embedded in certain of the Companys fixed maturity investments. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, notional amounts pertaining to derivatives utilized to manage interest rate risk totaled $9.5 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively ($7.8 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively related to insurance investments and $1.7 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively related to life insurance liabilities). The fair value of these derivatives as reflected on the consolidated balance sheets was $142 and $357 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Calculated Interest Rate Sensitivity The after tax change in the net economic value of investment contracts (e.g. guaranteed investment contracts) and other insurance product liabilities (e.g. short and long term disability contracts), that are not substantially affected by changes in interest rates ("fixed liabilities") and for which the investment experience is substantially absorbed by Life, are included in the following table along with the corresponding general and guaranteed separate account assets. Also included in this analysis are the interest rate sensitive derivatives used by Life to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk. Certain financial instruments, such as limited partnerships, have been omitted from the analysis because the investments are accounted for under the equity method and lack sensitivity to interest rate changes. Interest rate sensitive investment contracts and universal life type contracts are excluded from the hypothetical calculation below because the contracts generally allow Life significant flexibility to adjust credited rates to reflect actual investment experience and thereby pass through a substantial portion of actual investment experience to the policyholder. Non guaranteed separate account assets and liabilities are excluded from the hypothetical calculation below because gains and losses in separate accounts generally accrue to policyholders. The estimated change in net economic value assumes a 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shift in the yield curve. CHANGE IN NET ECONOMIC VALUE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 Basis point shift 100 + 100 100 + 100 Amount $ (27) $ (19) $ 17 $ (51) The fixed liabilities included above represented approximately 60% of Lifes general and guaranteed separate account liabilities as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. The assets supporting the fixed liabilities are monitored and managed within rigorous duration guidelines using scenario simulation techniques, and are evaluated on an annual basis, in compliance with regulatory requirements. The after tax change in fair value of the general account invested asset portfolios that support interest rate sensitive investment contracts and universal life type contracts and other insurance contracts that possess significant mortality risk are shown in the following table. The cash flows associated with these liabilities are less predictable than fixed liabilities. The Company identifies the most appropriate investment strategy based upon the expected policyholder behavior and liability crediting needs. The hypothetical calculation of the estimated change in fair value below, assumes a 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shift in the yield curve. CHANGE IN FAIR VALUE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 Basis point shift 100 + 100 100 + 100 Amount $ 481 $ (473) $ 415 $ (401) The above quantitative presentation was adopted in the current year and is in lieu of the tabular presentation historically disclosed. The Company believes the current presentation is preferable in understanding the Companys invested asset interest rate risk exposure. The selection of the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was made only as a hypothetical illustration of the potential impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. The Companys sensitivity analysis calculation assumes that the composition of invested assets and liabilities remain materially consistent throughout the year and that the current relationship between short term and long term interest rates will remain constant over time. As a result, these calculations may not fully capture the impact of portfolio re allocations, significant product sales or non parallel changes in interest rates. In addition, Life carries other obligations (non insurance liabilities) that have, to a lesser extent, exposure to interest rate risk. 67 The table below provides information as of December 31, 2003 on debt obligations and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2002. 2003 2002 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL SHORT TERM DEBT Fixed Rate Amount $ 200 $ $ $ $ $ $ 200 $ Weighted average interest rate 6.9% 6.9% Fair value $ 205 $ $ $ $ $ $ 205 $ LONG TERM DEBT [1] Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ $ 200 $ 305 $ 1,100 $ 1,605 $ 1,575 Weighted average interest rate 7.1% 2.9% 7.4% 6.5% 7.2% Fair value $ $ $ $ 224 $ 367 $ 1,237 $ 1,828 $ 1,681 [1] Includes junior subordinated debentures. Equity Risk The Companys operations are significantly influenced by changes in the equity markets. The Companys profitability depends largely on the amount of assets under management, which is primarily driven by the level of sales, equity market appreciation and depreciation and the persistency of the in force block of business. Prolonged and precipitous declines in the equity markets can have a significant impact on the Companys operations, as sales of variable products may decline and surrender activity may increase, as customer sentiment towards the equity market turns negative. Lower assets under management will have a negative impact on the Companys financial results, primarily due to lower fee income related to the Investment Products and, to a lesser extent, Individual Life segments, where a heavy concentration of equity linked products are administered and sold. Furthermore, the Company may experience a reduction in profit margins if a significant portion of the assets held in the variable annuity separate accounts move to the general account and the Company is unable to earn an acceptable investment spread, particularly in light of the low interest rate environment and the presence of contractually guaranteed minimum interest credited rates, which for the most part are at a 3% rate. In addition, prolonged declines in the equity market may also decrease the Companys expectations of future gross profits, which are utilized to determine the amount of DAC to be amortized in a given financial statement period. A significant decrease in the Companys estimated gross profits would require the Company to accelerate the amount of DAC amortization in a given period, potentially causing a material adverse deviation in that periods net income. Although an acceleration of DAC amortization would have a negative impact on the Companys earnings, it would not affect the Companys cash flow or liquidity position. Additionally, the Investment Products segment sells variable annuity contracts that offer various guaranteed death benefits. For certain guaranteed death benefits, the Company pays the greater of (1) the account value at death; (2) the sum of all premium payments less prior withdrawals; or (3) the maximum anniversary value of the contract, plus any premium payments since the contract anniversary, minus any withdrawals following the contract anniversary. The Company currently reinsures a significant portion of these death benefit guarantees associated with its in force block of business. The Company currently records the death benefit costs, net of reinsurance, as they are incurred. Declines in the equity market may increase the Companys net exposure to death benefits under these contracts. The Investment Products segments total gross exposure (i.e. before reinsurance) to these guaranteed death benefits as of December 31, 2003 is $11.4 billion. Due to the fact that 81% of this amount is reinsured, the Companys net exposure is $2.2 billion. This amount is often referred to as the net amount at risk. However, the Company will incur these guaranteed death benefit payments in the future only if the policyholder has an in the money guaranteed death benefit at their time of death. In order to analyze the total costs that the Company may incur in the future related to these guaranteed death benefits, the Company performed an actuarial present value analysis. This analysis included developing a model utilizing stochastically generated scenarios and best estimate assumptions related to mortality and lapse rates. A range of projected costs was developed and discounted back to the financial statement date utilizing the Companys cost of capital, which for this purpose was assumed to be 9.25%. Based on this analysis, the Company estimated a 95% confidence interval of the present value of the retained death benefit costs to be incurred in the future to be a range of $88 to $282 for these contracts. The median of the stochastically generated investment performance scenarios was $132. In addition, the Companys gross and net exposure to GMDB and other benefits in its Japanese operation was $0.1 billion at December 31, 2003. On June 30, 2003, the Company recaptured a block of business previously reinsured with an unaffiliated reinsurer. Under this treaty, Life reinsured a portion of the GMDB feature associated with certain of its annuity contracts. As consideration for recapturing the business and final settlement under the treaty, the Company has received assets valued at approximately $32 and one million warrants exercisable for the unaffiliated companys stock. Prospectively, as a result of the recapture, Life will be responsible for all of the remaining and ongoing risks associated with the GMDBs related to this block of business. The recapture increased the net amount at risk retained by the Company, which is included in the net amount at risk discussed above. On January 1, 2004, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Position 03 1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration 68 Contracts and for Separate Accounts", (the "SOP"). The provisions of the SOP include a requirement for recording a liability for variable annuity products with a guaranteed minimum death benefit feature. The determination of this liability is also based on models that involve numerous estimates and subjective judgments, including those regarding expected market rates of return and volatility, contract surrender rates and mortality experience. As of January 1, 2004, the Company has recorded a liability for GMDBs sold with variable annuity products of $199 and a related reinsurance recoverable asset of $108. Net of estimated DAC and income tax effects, the cumulative effect of establishing the required GMDB reserves resulted in a reduction of net income of $54 during the first quarter of 2004. In addition, the Company offers certain variable annuity products with a GMWB rider. The GMWB provides the policyholder with a guaranteed remaining balance ("GRB") if the account value is reduced to zero through a combination of market declines and withdrawals. The GRB is generally equal to premiums less withdrawals. However, annual withdrawals that exceed 7% of the premiums paid may reduce the GRB by an amount greater than the withdrawals and may also impact the guaranteed annual withdrawal amount that subsequently applies after the excess annual withdrawals occur. The policyholder also has the option, after a specified time period, to reset the GRB to the then current account value, if greater. The GMWB represents an embedded derivative liability in the variable annuity contract that is required to be reported separately from the host variable annuity contract. It is carried at fair value and reported in other policyholder funds. The fair value of the GMWB obligations are calculated based on actuarial assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. Because of the dynamic and complex nature of these cash flows, stochastic techniques under a variety of market return scenarios and other best estimate assumptions are used. Estimating cash flows involves numerous estimates and subjective judgments including those regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market returns and discount rates. Declines in the equity market may increase the Companys exposure to benefits under the GMWB contracts. For all contracts in effect through July 6, 2003, the Company entered into a reinsurance arrangement to offset its exposure to the GMWB for the remaining lives of those contracts. As of July 6, 2003, the Company exhausted all but a small portion of the reinsurance capacity for new business under the current arrangement and will be ceding only a very small number of new contracts subsequent to July 6, 2003. Substantially all new contracts with the GMWB are not covered by reinsurance. These unreinsured contracts are expected to generate volatility in net income as the underlying embedded derivative liabilities are recorded at fair value each reporting period, resulting in the recognition of net realized capital gains or losses in response to changes in certain critical factors including capital market conditions and policyholder behavior. In order to minimize the volatility associated with the unreinsured GMWB liabilities, the Company established an alternative risk management strategy. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company began hedging its unreinsured GMWB exposure using interest rate futures, Standard and Poors ("S&P") 500 and NASDAQ index put options and futures contracts. The net impact of the change in value of the embedded derivative, net of the results of the hedging program was a $6 pre tax gain for the year ended December 31, 2003. The net gain is due principally to an approximate $4 gain associated with international funds for which hedge positions had not been initiated prior to December 31, 2003 but were initiated in the first quarter of 2004 and $2 due to modeling refinements to improve valuation estimates. Excluding these items, ineffectiveness on S&P 500 and NASDAQ economic hedge positions was not significant. Currency Exchange Risk Currency exchange risk exists with respect to investments in non US dollar denominated fixed maturities, primarily denominated in Euro, Sterling, Yen and Canadian dollars, as well as Lifes investment in foreign operations, primarily Japan. The functional currency of the Japanese operation is the Japanese yen. Accordingly, the premiums, claims, commissions and investment income are paid or received in yen. In addition, most of the Japanese operations investments are yen denominated. The risk associated with these investments relates to potential decreases in value and income resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Life had approximately $2.0 billion and $1.2 billion of non US dollar denominated fixed maturities, respectively. The net investment in the Japanese operation was approximately $250 and $113, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In order to manage its currency exposures, Life enters into foreign currency swaps to hedge the variability in cash flow associated with certain foreign denominated fixed maturities. These foreign currency swap agreements are structured to match the foreign currency cash flows of the hedged foreign denominated securities. As of December 31, 2002, substantially all the fixed maturity investments were hedged into US dollars mitigating the foreign currency exchange risk. In addition, during 2003, Life entered into yen denominated forwards to hedge a substantial portion of the net investment in the Japanese operation. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the derivatives used to hedge currency exchange risk had a total notional value of $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and total fair value of $(303) and $(70), respectively. Based on the fair values of Lifes non US dollar denominated investments and derivative instruments (including its Japanese operation) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, management estimates that a 10% unfavorable change in exchange rates would decrease the fair values by a total of $36 and $13, respectively. The estimated impact was based upon a 10% change in December 31 spot rates. The selection of the 10% unfavorable change was made only for hypothetical illustration of the potential impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. 69 PROPERTY & CASUALTY Property & Casualty attempts to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after tax income and sufficient liquidity to meet policyholder and corporate obligations. Property & Casualtys portfolio has material exposure to interest rates. The Company continually monitors these exposures and makes portfolio adjustments to manage these risks within established limits. Interest Rate Risk The primary exposure to interest rate risk in Property & Casualty relates to its fixed maturity investments, including corporate bonds, asset backed securities, municipal bonds, commercial mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. The fair value of these investments was $23.7 billion and $19.4 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair value of these and Property & Casualtys other invested assets fluctuates depending on the interest rate environment and other general economic conditions. During periods of declining interest rates, embedded call features within securities are exercised with greater frequency and paydowns on mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations increase as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable yields. Conversely during periods of rising interest rates, the rate of prepayments generally decline. Derivative instruments such as swaps, caps and options are used to manage interest rate risk and had a total notional amount as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 of $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, and fair value of $19 and $36, respectively. One of the measures Property & Casualty uses to quantify its exposure to interest rate risk inherent in its invested assets is duration. The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 4.7 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Calculated Interest Rate Sensitivity The following table provides an analysis showing the estimated after tax change in the fair value of Property & Casualtys fixed maturity investments and related derivatives, assuming 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shifts in the yield curve as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Certain financial instruments, such as limited partnerships, have been omitted from the analysis due to the fact the investments are accounted for under the equity method and lack sensitivity to interest rate changes. CHANGE IN FAIR VALUE 2003 2002 Basis point shift 100 + 100 100 + 100 Amount $ 738 $ (714) $ 571 $ (562) The above quantitative presentation was adopted in the current year and is in lieu of the tabular presentation used by the Company in previous years. The Company believes the current presentation is preferable in understanding the Companys exposure to interest rate risk and how such exposure is managed. The selection of the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was made only for hypothetical illustration of the potential impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. The Companys sensitivity analysis calculation assumes that the composition of invested assets remains materially consistent throughout the year and that the current relationship between short term and long term interest rates will remain constant over time. As a result, these calculations may not fully capture the impact of portfolio re allocations or non parallel changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk also exists, to a lesser extent, on debt issued. The table below provides information as of December 31, 2003 on debt obligations and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2002. 2003 2002 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL SHORT TERM DEBT Variable Rate Amount $ 315 $ $ $ $ $ $ 315 $ 315 Weighted average interest rate 1.3% 1.3% 1.5% Fair value $ 315 $ $ $ $ $ $ 315 $ 315 LONG TERM DEBT [1] Fixed Rate Amount $ $ $ $ 300 $ 350 $ 1,020 $ 1,670 $ 1,850 Weighted average interest rate 4.7% 5.4% 6.5% 6.0% 6.7% Fair value $ $ $ $ 314 $ 398 $ 1,102 $ 1,814 $ 1,904 [1] Includes junior subordinated debentures. Currency Exchange Risk Currency exchange risk exists with respect to investments in non US dollar denominated fixed maturities, primarily Euro, Sterling and Canadian dollar denominated securities. The risk associated with these securities relates to potential decreases in value resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The fair value of these fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. In order to manage its currency exposures, Property & Casualty enters into foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to hedge the variability in cash flow associated with certain foreign denominated securities. These foreign currency swap agreements are structured to match the foreign currency cash flows of the hedged foreign denominated securities. At 70 December 31, 2003 and 2002, the derivatives used to hedge currency exchange risk had a total notional value of $325 and $793, respectively, and total fair value of $(26) and $(4), respectively. Based on the fair values of Property & Casualtys non US dollar denominated securities and derivative instruments as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, management estimates that a 10% unfavorable change in exchange rates would decrease the fair values by a total of approximately $75 and $49, respectively. The estimated impact was based upon a 10% change in December 31 spot rates. The selection of the 10% unfavorable change was made only for hypothetical illustration of the potential impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. CORPORATE Interest Rate Risk The primary exposure to interest rate risk in Corporate relates to the debt issued in connection with The HLI Repurchase. The table below provides information as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 on Corporates debt obligations and reflects principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by maturity year. Comparative totals are included as of December 31, 2003. 2003 2002 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 THEREAFTER TOTAL TOTAL SHORT TERM DEBT [1] Variable Rate Amount $ 535 $ $ $ $ $ $ 535 $ Weighted average interest rate 1.3% 1.3% Fair value $ 535 $ $ $ $ $ $ 535 $ LONG TERM DEBT Fixed Rate Amount $ $ 250 $ 250 $ $ 565 $ 275 $ 1,340 $ 630 Weighted average interest rate 7.8% 2.4% 2.8% 7.9% 4.7% 7.2% Fair value $ $ 269 $ 248 $ $ 681 $ 333 $ 1,531 $ 698 [1] $411 of short term debt was repaid in January 2004. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Capital resources and liquidity represent the overall financial strength of The Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business segments, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met by funds from operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt securities and borrowings from its credit facilities. The principal sources of operating funds are premiums and investment income, while investing cash flows originate from maturities and sales of invested assets. The Hartford endeavors to maintain a capital structure that provides financial and operational flexibility to its insurance subsidiaries, ratings that support its competitive position in the financial services marketplace (see the Ratings section below for further discussion), and strong shareholder returns. As a result, the Company may from time to time raise capital from the issuance of stock, debt or other capital securities. The issuance of common stock, debt or other capital securities could result in the dilution of shareholder interests or reduced net income due to additional interest expense. The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("HFSG") and HLI are holding companies which rely upon operating cash flow in the form of dividends from their subsidiaries, which enable them to service debt, pay dividends, and pay certain business expenses. Dividends to HFSG from its subsidiaries are restricted. The payment of dividends by Connecticut domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding company laws of Connecticut. Under these laws, the insurance subsidiaries may only make their dividend payments out of unassigned surplus. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurers policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations, if such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve month period ending on the thirty first day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting policies. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut domiciled insurer exceeds the insurers earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartfords insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar (although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Companys insurance subsidiaries paid $326 to HFSG and HLI and are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $1.4 billion in dividends to HFSG and HLI in 2004 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses and commissions and to purchase new 71 investments. In addition, The Hartford has a policy of carrying a significant short term investment position and accordingly does not anticipate selling intermediate and long term fixed maturity investments to meet any liquidity needs. (For a discussion of the Companys investment objectives and strategies, see the Investments and Capital Markets Risk Management sections.) SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY Shelf Registrations On December 3, 2003, The Hartfords shelf registration statement (Registration No. 333 108067) for the potential offering and sale of debt and equity securities in an aggregate amount of up to $3.0 billion was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Registration Statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, and (ii) preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by The Hartford ("The Hartford Trusts"). The Company may enter into guarantees with respect to the preferred securities of any of The Hartford Trusts. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $3.0 billion remaining on its shelf. Subsequently, in January 2004, the Company issued approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering at a price to the public of $63.25 per share and received net proceeds of $411. Accordingly, as of February 27, 2004, the Company had $2.6 billion remaining on its shelf. On May 15, 2001, HLI filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of up to $1.0 billion in debt and preferred securities. The registration statement was declared effective on May 29, 2001. As of December 31, 2003, HLI had $1.0 billion remaining on its shelf. Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facilities The table below details the Companys short term debt programs and the applicable balances outstanding. As of December 31, Description Effective Date Expiration Date Maximum Available 2003 2002 Commercial Paper The Hartford 11/10/86 N/A $ 2,000 $ 850 $ 315 HLI 2/7/97 N/A 250 Total commercial paper $ 2,250 $ 850 $ 315 Revolving Credit Facility 5 year revolving credit facility 6/20/01 6/20/06 $ 1,000 $ $ 3 year revolving credit facility 12/31/02 12/31/05 490 Total Revolving Credit Facilities $ 1,490 $ $ TOTAL OUTSTANDING COMMERCIAL PAPER AND REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITIES $ 3,740 $ 850 $ 315 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS On June 30, 2003, the Company entered into a sale leaseback of certain furniture and fixtures with a net book value of $40. The sale leaseback resulted in a gain of $15, which was deferred and will be amortized into earnings over the initial lease term of three years. The lease qualifies as an operating lease for accounting purposes. At the end of the initial lease term, the Company has the option to purchase the leased assets, renew the lease for two one year periods or return the leased assets to the lessor. If the Company elects to return the assets to the lessor at the end of the initial lease term, the assets will be sold, and the Company has guaranteed a residual value on the furniture and fixtures of $20. If the fair value of the furniture and fixtures were to decline below the residual value, the Company would have to make up the difference under the residual value guarantee. Since the estimated fair value of the equipment at the end of the initial lease term exceeds the residual value, the Company has not recorded a liability for the residual value guarantee. The Company has outstanding commitments to fund limited partnership investments. These capital commitments can be called by the partnership at any time during the commitment period (on average, 3 6 years) to fund working capital needs or the purchase of new investments. If the commitment period expires and has not been fully funded, The Hartford is not required to fund the remaining unfunded commitment but may elect to do so. The Company is unable to predict the timing of the funding of these outstanding commitments. The Company also has outstanding commitments to fund obligations associated with investments in mortgage loans. These have a commitment period that expires in one year. The Company does not have any other off balance sheet arrangements including letters of credit, guarantees issued on behalf of unconsolidated entities, trading activities involving non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value, obligations under derivative financial instruments indexed to the Companys stock, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities and obligations arising from a material interest in an unconsolidated entity, except as disclosed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 The following table identifies the Companys aggregate contractual obligations due by payment period: PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD TOTAL LESS THAN 1 YEAR 1 3 YEARS 3 5 YEARS MORE THAN 5 YEARS Long term debt obligations [1] [2] $ 6,239 $ 752 $ 541 $ 675 $ 4,271 Capital lease obligations Operating lease obligations 748 161 264 179 144 Purchase obligations [3] 857 698 142 17 Other long term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet [4] [5] 1,537 1,537 Total $ 9,381 $ 3,148 $ 947 $ 871 $ 4,415 [1] Includes contractual principal and interest payments. Payments exclude amounts associated with fair value hedges of certain of the Companys long term debt. All long term debt obligations have fixed rates of interest. [2] On February 13, 2004, the Company provided notice that all outstanding 7.2% junior subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities issued by Hartford Life Capital I have been called for redemption on March 15, 2004. The principal and interest payable upon redemption of $253 has been reflected in payments due in less than 1 year. Long term debt obligations also includes principal and interest payments of $700 and $2.5 billion, respectively, related to junior subordinated debentures which are callable beginning in 2006. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of long term debt obligations. [3] Includes $661 in commitments to purchase investments including $324 of limited partnerships and $140 of mortgage loans. Outstanding commitments under these limited partnerships and mortgage loans are included in payments due in less than 1 year since the timing of funding these commitments cannot be estimated. The remaining $197 relates to payables for securities purchased which are reflected on the Companys consolidated balance sheet. [4] As of December 31, 2003, the Company has accepted cash collateral of $1.2 billion in connection with the Companys derivative instruments. Since the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the payments due in less than 1 year. [5] Includes estimated contribution of $300 to the Companys pension plan in 2004. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS The Company maintains a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") that covers substantially all employees, as well as unfunded excess plans to provide benefits in excess of amounts permitted to be paid to participants of the Plan under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally, the Company has entered into individual retirement agreements with certain current and retired directors providing for unfunded supplemental pension benefits. The Company maintains international plans which represent an immaterial percentage of total pension assets, liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes, are combined with domestic plans. In September 2003, the Company announced its approval to amend the Plan to implement, effective January 1, 2009, the cash balance formula for purposes of calculating future pension benefits for services rendered on or after January 1, 2009 for employees hired before January 1, 2001. These amounts are in addition to amounts earned through December 31, 2008 under the traditional final average pay formula. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2001 are currently covered under the same cash balance formula. The Company made voluntary contributions of $306, $0 and $90 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, to its defined benefit pension plan. Pension expense reflected in the Companys net income was $120, $67 and $57 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company estimates its 2004 pension expense will be approximately $122, based on current assumptions provided below. The assumptions that primarily impact the amount of the Companys pension obligations and periodic pension expense are the weighted average discount rate and the Plan asset portfolios expected long term rate of return. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes current market information provided by its plan actuaries, including a discounted cash flow analysis of the Companys pension obligation and general movements in the current market environment. In particular, the Company uses an interest rate yield curve developed by its plan actuaries to make judgments pursuant to EITF Topic No. D 36, "Selection of Discount Rates Used for Measuring Defined Benefit Pension Obligations and Obligations of Postretirement Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions". The yield curve is comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. Based upon all available information, it was determined that 6.25% is the appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2003 to calculate the Companys accrued benefit cost liability. Accordingly, as prescribed by SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions", the 6.25% discount rate will also be used to determine the Companys 2004 pension expense. At December 31, 2002 the discount rate was 6.5%. The Company determines the long term rate of return assumption for the Plans asset portfolio based on analysis of the portfolios historical compound rates of return since 1979 (the earliest date for which comparable portfolio data is available) over rolling 5 year, 10 year and 20 year periods, balanced along with future long term return expectations. The Company selected these periods, as well as shorter durations, to assess the portfolios volatility, duration and total returns as they relate to pension obligation characteristics, which are influenced by the Companys workforce demographics. While the historical return of the Plans portfolio has been 10.86% since 1979, management lowered its long term rate of return assumption from 9.00% to 8.50% as of December 31, 2003 based on its long term outlook with respect to the markets, which has been influenced by the poor equity market performance in recent years coupled with the recent decline in fixed income security yields. The Plans asset portfolio is generally structured over time to include approximately 60% equity securities (substantially securities issued by United States based companies) and 40% fixed income securities (substantially investment grade and above). At December 31, 2003, the portfolio composition varied slightly from the targeted mix and was approximately 73 61% equity securities and 39% fixed income securities due in part to a rebound in the equity markets and declining interest rates. As provided for under SFAS No. 87, the Company uses a five year averaging method to determine the market related value of Plan assets, which is used to determine the expected return component of pension expense. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses that result from returns that differ from the Companys long term rate of return assumption are recognized in the market related value of assets on a level basis over a five year period. The actual asset return/(loss) for the Plan of $334 and $ (119) for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, reflects the improved equity market performance in 2003, as compared to an expected return of $184 and $183 for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These differentials will be fully reflected in the market related value of Plan assets over the next five years using the methodology described above. Despite the favorable 2003 actual asset return, the level of unrecognized net losses continues to exceed the allowable amortization corridor as defined under SFAS No. 87. Based on the selected 2004 discount rate of 6.25% and taking into account estimated future minimum funding, the differential between actual and expected performance in 2003 will decrease annual pension expense in future years by approximately $7 in 2004 and decrease by approximately $37 in 2008. Additionally, the decrease in the long term rate of return assumption from 9.00% to 8.50% is expected to increase the Companys annual pension expense by approximately $10. At December 31, 2003, the change in the discount rate from 6.50% (as of December 31, 2002) to 6.25% (as of December 31, 2003) increased the projected benefit obligation ("PBO") by $100. The effect of this increase in PBO will serve to increase annual pension expense by approximately $7, assuming no future changes in discount rates going forward. In addition, the decrease in discount rate will also increase the service cost component of pension expense by approximately $5. Changes in the economic assumptions used to determine pension expense will impact the Companys pension expense. As mentioned earlier, the two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. To illustrate the impact of these assumptions on annual pension expense for 2004 and going forward, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $12, and a 25 basis point change in the long term asset return assumption will increase/decrease pension expense by approximately $5. While the Company has significant discretion in making voluntary contributions to the Plan, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 regulations mandate minimum contributions in certain circumstances. Under current assumptions, assuming no continued pension relief in 2004 the required minimum funding contributions are estimated to be approximately $160. If Congress approves pension relief legislation for 2004, the Company is not expected to have a minimum funding requirement in 2004. CAPITALIZATION The capital structure of The Hartford as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 consisted of debt and equity, summarized as follows: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 Short term debt (includes current maturities of long term debt) $ 1,050 $ 315 Long term debt [1] 4,613 4,064 TOTAL DEBT $ 5,663 $ 4,379 Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax ("AOCI") $ 10,393 $ 9,640 AOCI 1,246 1,094 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 11,639 $ 10,734 TOTAL CAPITALIZATION INCLUDING AOCI $ 17,302 $ 15,113 Debt to equity 49% 41% Debt to capitalization 33% 29% [1] Includes junior subordinated debentures. The Hartfords total capitalization increased $2.2 billion during the year ended and as of December 31, 2003 as compared with December 31, 2002. This increase was due to the capital raising described below, partially offset by dividends declared and the loss for the year, which reflected the $1.7 billion, after tax, charge taken to strengthen reserves for asbestos related exposure. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company increased its capitalization by $535 through the issuance of commercial paper to finance the acquisition of the group life and accident, and short term and long term disability business of CNA Financial Corporation. In January 2004, the company repaid $428 of the outstanding commercial paper using $411 of proceeds from the common stock offering. During the second quarter of 2003, the Company increased its capitalization by $2.1 billion through the issuance of $1.2 billion in common stock, $669 in equity units and $249 in senior notes. Contributions of proceeds included: $300 to the Companys qualified pension plan, $150 to the life insurance subsidiaries, $180 to redeem a portion of its Series A 7.7% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities due February 28, 2016, with the balance to be used in the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries. DEBT The following discussion describes the Companys debt financing activities for 2003. In December 2003, the Company issued $535 in commercial paper to finance the acquisition of the group life and accident, 74 and short term and long term disability businesses of CNA Financial Corporation. On July 10, 2003, the Company issued 4.625% senior notes due July 15, 2013 and received net proceeds of $317. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on January 15 and July 15, commencing on January 15, 2004. On July 10, 2003, the Company issued $320 in aggregate principal amount of its unregistered 4.625% senior notes, due 2013. The unregistered senior notes were offered and sold only to qualified institutional buyers in compliance with Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933 and, outside the United States, in compliance with Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933. The initial purchasers of the senior notes were Banc of America Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. The net proceeds from the offering, along with available cash, were used to redeem $320 net aggregate principal amount of the Companys then outstanding 7.70% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, series A, due February 28, 2016, underlying the 7.70% cumulative quarterly income preferred securities, series A, originally issued by Hartford Capital I. On January 22, 2004, pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in the registration statement on Form S 4 (Reg. No. 333 110274) effective as of January 20, 2004 and the related prospectus, the Company commenced an exchange offer whereby the unregistered senior notes can be exchanged for registered senior notes with identical terms. The exchange offer terminated on February 25, 2004. On June 30, 2003, the Company redeemed $180 of its 7.7% junior subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities issued by Hartford Capital I. On September 30, 2003, the Company redeemed the remaining $320 of its 7.7% junior subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities issued by Hartford Capital I. On May 23, 2003, The Hartford issued 12.0 million 7% equity units at a price of fifty dollars per unit and received net proceeds of $582. Subsequently, on May 30, 2003, The Hartford issued an additional 1.8 million 7% equity units at a price of fifty dollars per unit and received net proceeds of $87. On May 23, 2003, The Hartford issued 2.375% senior notes due June 1, 2006 and received net proceeds of $249. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on June 1 and December 1, commencing on December 1, 2003. Subsequent event On February 13, 2004, the Company provided notice that all outstanding 7.2% junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities issued by Hartford Life Capital I have been called for redemption on March 15, 2004. The Company intends to fund the redemption through the issuance of $150 of commercial paper and the utilization of $100 from internal sources. For additional information regarding debt, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Issuance of common stock On May 23, 2003, The Hartford issued approximately 24.2 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering at a price to the public of $45.50 per share and received net proceeds of $1.1 billion. Subsequently, on May 30, 2003, The Hartford issued approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock at a price to the public of $45.50 per share and received net proceeds of $97. On May 23, 2003 and May 30, 2003, The Hartford issued 12.0 million 7% equity units and 1.8 million 7% equity units, respectively. Each equity unit contains a purchase contract obligating the holder to purchase and The Hartford to sell, a variable number of newly issued shares of The Hartfords common stock. Upon settlement of the purchase contracts on August 16, 2006, The Hartford will receive proceeds of approximately $690 and will deliver between 12.1 million and 15.2 million shares in the aggregate. For further discussion of the equity units issuance, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent events On January 22, 2004, The Hartford issued approximately 6.3 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering at a price to the public of $63.25 per share and received net proceeds of $388. Subsequently, on January 30, 2004, The Hartford issued approximately 377,000 shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten offering at a price to the public of $63.25 per share and received net proceeds of $23. The Company used the proceeds from these issuances to repay $411 of commercial paper issued in connection with the acquisition of the group life and accident, and short term and long term disability business of CNA Financial Corporation. Dividends On October 16, 2003, The Hartford declared a dividend on its common stock of $0.28 per share payable on January 2, 2004 to shareholders of record as of December 1, 2003. The Hartford declared $300 and paid $291 in dividends to shareholders in 2003, declared $262 and paid $257 in 2002 and declared $242 and paid $235 in 2001. AOCI AOCI increased by $152 as of December 31, 2003 compared with December 31, 2002. The increase resulted primarily from the impact of decreased interest rates on unrealized gains on the fixed maturity portfolio, partially offset by net losses on cash flow hedging instruments. The funded status of the Companys pension and postretirement plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of market interest rates. Declines in the value of securities traded in equity markets coupled with declines in long term interest rates have had a negative impact on the funded status of the plans. As a result, the Company recorded a minimum pension liability as of December 31, 2003, and 2002, which resulted in an after tax reduction of stockholders equity of $375 and $383. respectively. This minimum pension liability did not affect the Companys results of operations. For additional information on stockholders equity and AOCI see Notes 9 and 19, respectively, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. CASH FLOW 2003 2002 2001 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,896 $ 2,577 $ 2,261 Net cash used for investing activities $ (8,387) $ (6,600) $ (5,528) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 4,608 $ 4,037 $ 3,399 Cash end of year $ 462 $ 377 $ 353 75 2003 COMPARED TO 2002 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of the 2003 asbestos reserve addition, partially offset by the related income statement effects of this addition and increases in reinsurance recoverables. Financing activities increased primarily due to capital raising activities related to the 2003 asbestos reserve addition and decreased due to repayments on long term debt and lower proceeds from investment and universal life type contracts. The increase in cash from financing activities accounted for the majority of the change in cash used for investing activities. 2002 COMPARED TO 2001 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of higher net income reported for the year ended December 31, 2002 than for the prior year as well as an increase in income tax refunds received in 2002 compared with the prior year. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily the result of increased proceeds from investment and universal life type contracts, partially offset by lower proceeds received from issuances of common stock and no issuances of junior subordinated debentures in 2002. The increase in cash from financing activities accounted for the majority of the change in cash for investing activities. Operating cash flows in each of the last three years have been adequate to meet liquidity requirements. ACQUISITIONS CNA On December 31, 2003, the Company acquired CNA Financial Corporations group life and accident, and short term and long term disability businesses for $485 in cash. Purchase consideration for this transaction was obtained from the issuance of commercial paper. The purchase price paid on December 31, 2003, was based on a September 30, 2003 valuation of the business acquired. During the first quarter of 2004, the purchase price will be adjusted to reflect a December 31, 2003 valuation of the business acquired. The Company currently estimates that adjustment to the purchase price to be an increase of $51, which primarily reflects the increase in the surplus of the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2003. EQUITY MARKETS For a discussion of the potential impact of the equity markets on capital and liquidity, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section under "Market Risk". RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position in the insurance and financial services marketplace. There can be no assurance that the Companys ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be changed. In the event the Companys ratings are downgraded, the level of revenues or the persistency of the Companys business may be adversely impacted. Upon completion of the Companys asbestos reserve study and the Companys capital raising activities, certain of the major independent ratings organizations revised The Hartfords financial ratings as follows: On May 23, 2003, Fitch affirmed all ratings on The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. including the fixed income ratings and the insurer financial strength rating of the Hartford Fire Intercompany Pool. Further, these ratings have been removed from Rating Watch Negative and now have a Stable Rating Outlook. On May 20, 2003, Standard & Poors removed from CreditWatch and affirmed the long term counterparty credit and senior debt rating of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and the counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on the operating companies following the Companys completion of capital raising activities. The outlook is stable. On May 14, 2003, Moodys downgraded the debt ratings of both The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Hartford Life, Inc. to A3 from A2 and their short term commercial paper ratings to P 2 from P 1. The outlook on all of the ratings except for the P 2 rating on commercial paper is negative. On May 13, 2003, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of A+ (Superior) of The Hartford Fire Intercompany Pool and the main operating life insurance subsidiaries of HLI. Concurrently, A.M. Best downgraded to "a " from "a+" the senior debt ratings of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Hartford Life Inc. and removed the ratings from under review. The following table summarizes The Hartfords significant United States member companies financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations as of February 27, 2004. A.M. STANDARD BEST FITCH & POORS MOODYS INSURANCE FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS: Hartford Fire A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life Insurance Company A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life and Accident A+ AA AA Aa3 Hartford Life Group Insurance Company A+ AA AA Hartford Life and Annuity A+ AA AA Aa3 OTHER RATINGS: The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.: Senior debt a A A A3 Commercial paper AMB 2 F1 A 2 P 2 Hartford Capital III trust originated preferred securities bbb A BBB Baa1 Hartford Life, Inc.: Senior debt a A A A3 Commercial paper F1 A 2 P 2 Hartford Life, Inc.: Capital I and II trust preferred securities bbb A BBB Baa1 Hartford Life Insurance Company: Short Term Rating A 1+ P 1 These ratings are not a recommendation to buy or hold any of The Hartfords securities and they may be revised or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating organization. 76 The agencies consider many factors in determining the final rating of an insurance company. One consideration is the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business written. Statutory surplus represents the capital of the insurance company reported in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by the applicable state insurance department. The table below sets forth statutory surplus for the Companys insurance companies. 2003 2002 Life Operations $ 4,470 $ 3,019 Property & Casualty Operations 5,900 4,878 TOTAL $ 10,370 $ 7,897 RISK BASED CAPITAL The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has regulations establishing minimum capitalization requirements based on risk based capital ("RBC") formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The requirements consist of formulas, which identify companies that are undercapitalized and require specific regulatory actions. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. RBC is calculated for property and casualty companies after adjusting capital for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off balance sheet risks. As of December 31, 2003, each of The Hartfords insurance subsidiaries within Life and North American Property & Casualty had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAICs minimum RBC requirements. TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT OF 2002 The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 ("the Act") established a program that will run through 2005 that provides a backstop for insurance related losses resulting from any "act of terrorism" certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and Attorney General. Under the program, the federal government will pay 90% of covered losses after an insurers losses exceed a deductible determined by a statutorily prescribed formula, up to a combined annual aggregate limit for the federal government and all insurers of $100 billion. If an act of terrorism or acts of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, insurers with losses exceeding their deductibles will not be responsible for additional losses. The statutory formula for determining a companys deductible for each year is based on the companys direct commercial earned premiums for the prior calendar year multiplied by a specified percentage. The specified percentages are 10% for 2004 and 15% for 2005. The Act applies to a significant portion of The Hartfords commercial property and casualty contracts, but it specifically excludes some of The Hartfords other insurance business, including crop or livestock insurance, reinsurance and personal lines business. The Act currently does not apply to group life insurance contracts but permits the Secretary of the Treasury to extend the backstop protection to them. On August 15, 2003, the Treasury Department announced that it would not use its legislatively granted authority to include group life insurance under the Federal backstop for terrorism losses in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002. In announcing this decision, the Treasury stated that they would continue to monitor the group life situation. The Act requires all property and casualty insurers, including The Hartford, to make terrorism insurance coverage available in all of their covered commercial property and casualty insurance policies (as defined in the Act). The Hartford will evaluate risks with terrorism exposures by applying its internally developed underwriting guidelines and control plans. The Hartford does not anticipate significant increases in premiums due to the Act. In the event the Act is not renewed, or is renewed in a materially different form, the Company may have to attempt to obtain appropriate reinsurance for the related terrorism risk, seek exclusions from coverage related to terrorism exposure from the appropriate regulatory authorities, limit certain of its writings, or pursue a solution encompassing aspects of one or all of the foregoing. CONTINGENCIES Legal Proceedings The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. Subject to the discussion of the litigation involving MacArthur in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and the uncertainties related to asbestos and environmental claims discussed in the MD&A under the caption "Other Operations," management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course claims litigation, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford. The Hartford is also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative state and federal class actions seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for example, underpayment of claims or improper underwriting practices in connection with various kinds of insurance policies, such as personal and commercial automobile, premises liability and inland marine, and improper sales practices in connection with the sale of life insurance and other investment products. The Hartford also is involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of The Hartford. Nonetheless, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. 77 Dependence on Certain Third Party Relationships The Company distributes its annuity, life and certain property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including broker dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third party organizations. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to the Company or such third parties. An interruption in the Companys continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect the Companys ability to market its products. For further information on other contingencies, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES On July 10, 2003, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation that, if enacted, would provide for the creation of a Federal asbestos trust fund in place of the current tort system for determining asbestos liabilities. The prospects for enactment and the ultimate details of any legislation creating a Federal asbestos trust fund are uncertain. Therefore, any potential effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Certain elements of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, in particular the reduction in tax rates on long term capital gains and most dividend distributions, could have a material effect on the Companys sales of variable annuities and other investment products. While sales of these products do not appear to have been reduced to date, the long term effect of the Jobs and Growth Act of 2003 on the Companys financial condition or results of operations cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. There are proposals in the federal 2005 budget submitted by President Bush which would create new investment vehicles with larger annual contribution limits for individuals. Some of these proposed vehicles would have significant tax advantages, and could have a material effect on sales of the Companys life insurance and investment products. There also have been proposals regarding the estate tax and deferred compensation arrangements that could have negative effects on the Companys product sales. Prospects for enactment of this legislation in 2004 are uncertain. Therefore, any potential effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. In addition, other tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress could have a material effect on the insurance business. These proposals and initiatives include changes pertaining to the tax treatment of insurance companies and life insurance products and annuities, and reductions in benefits currently received by the Company stemming from the dividends received deduction. Legislation to restructure the Social Security system and expand private pension plans incentives also may be considered. Prospects for enactment and the ultimate effect of these proposals are uncertain. Congress is expected to consider provisions regarding age discrimination in defined benefit plans, transition relief for older and longer service workers affected by changes to traditional defined benefit pension plans and the replacement of the interest rate used to determine pension plan funding requirements. These changes could affect the Companys pension plan. Congress may consider a number of legal reform proposals this year. Among them is legislation that would reduce the number and type of national class actions certified by state judges by updating the federal rules on diversity jurisdiction. Prospects for enactment of these proposals in 2004 are uncertain. INSOLVENCY FUND In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become members of an insolvency fund. In most states, in the event of the insolvency of an insurer writing any such class of insurance in the state, members of the fund are assessed to pay certain claims of the insolvent insurer. A particular states fund assesses its members based on their respective written premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state. Such assessments paid by The Hartford approximated $26 in 2003, $26 in 2002 and $6 in 2001. EFFECT OF INFLATION The rate of inflation as measured by the change in the average consumer price index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating results of The Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years. IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For a discussion of accounting standards, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position 03 1, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts" (the "SOP"). The SOP addresses a wide variety of topics, some of which have a significant impact on the Company. The major provisions of the SOP require: Recognizing expenses for a variety of contracts and contract features, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ("GMDB"), certain death benefits on universal life type contracts and annuitization options, on an accrual basis versus the previous method of recognition upon payment; Reporting and measuring assets and liabilities of certain separate account products as general account assets and liabilities when specified criteria are not met; Reporting and measuring the Companys interest in its separate accounts as general account assets based on the 78 insurers proportionate beneficial interest in the separate accounts underlying assets; and Capitalizing sales inducements that meet specified criteria and amortizing such amounts over the life of the contracts using the same methodology as used for amortizing deferred acquisition costs ("DAC"). The SOP is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2003. At the date of initial application, January 1, 2004, the estimated cumulative effect of the adoption of the SOP on net income and other comprehensive income was comprised of the following individual impacts: Cumulative Effect of Adoption Net Income Other Comprehensive Income Establishing GMDB and other benefit reserves for annuity contracts $(54) $ Reclassifying certain separate accounts to general accounts 30 294 Other (1) (2) TOTAL CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ADOPTION $(25) $292 Exclusive of the cumulative effect, overall application of the SOP is expected to have a small positive impact to earnings over the next few years, with individual impacts described below. Death Benefits and Other Insurance Benefit Features The Company sells variable annuity contracts that offer various guaranteed death benefits. For certain guaranteed death benefits, Life pays the greater of (1) the account value at death; (2) the sum of all premium payments less prior withdrawals; or (3) the maximum anniversary value of the contract, plus any premium payments since the contract anniversary, minus any withdrawals following the contract anniversary. The Company currently reinsures a significant portion of these death benefit guarantees associated with its in force block of business. As of January 1, 2004, the Company has recorded a liability for GMDB and other benefits sold with variable annuity products of $199 and a related reinsurance recoverable asset of $108. The determination of the GMDB liability and related reinsurance recoverable is based on models that involve a range of scenarios and assumptions, including those regarding expected market rates of return and volatility, contract surrender rates and mortality experience. The assumptions used are consistent with those used in determining estimated gross profits for purposes of amortizing deferred acquisition costs. Exclusive of the cumulative effect adjustment, the establishment of the required liability at January 1, 2004 is expected to result in slightly higher earnings in future years as well as a more stable pattern of death benefit expense. The Company sells universal life type contracts with certain secondary guarantees, such as a guarantee that the policy will not lapse, even if the account value is reduced to zero, as long as the policyholder makes scheduled premium payments. The assumptions used in the determination of the secondary guarantee liability are consistent with those used in determining estimated gross profits for purposes of amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs. Based on current estimates, the Company expects the cumulative effect on net income upon recording this liability to be not material. The establishment of the required liability will change the earnings pattern of these products, lowering earnings in the early years of the contract and increasing earnings in the later years. Based on the current in force of these products, the impact is not expected to be material in the near term. Currently there is diversity in industry practice and inconsistent guidance surrounding the application of the SOP to universal life type contracts. The Company believes consensus or further guidance surrounding the methodology for determining reserves for secondary guarantees will develop in the future. This may result in an adjustment to the cumulative effect of adopting the SOP and could impact future earnings. Separate Account Presentation The Company has recorded certain market value adjusted ("MVA") fixed annuity and modified guarantee life insurance products (primarily the Companys Compound Rate Contract ("CRC") and associated assets) as separate account assets and liabilities through December 31, 2003. Notwithstanding the market value adjustment feature in this product, all of the investment performance of the separate account assets is not being passed to the contractholder, and it therefore, does not meet the conditions for separate account reporting under the SOP. On January 1, 2004, the cumulative adjustments to earnings and other comprehensive income as a result of recording the separate account assets and liabilities in the general account were recorded net of amortization of deferred acquisition costs and income taxes. Through December 31, 2003, the Company had recorded CRC assets and liabilities on a market value basis with all changes in value (market value spread) included in current earnings as a component of other revenues. Upon adoption of the SOP, the component of CRC spread on a book value basis will be recorded in net investment income and interest credited. Realized gains and losses on investments and market value adjustments on contract surrenders will be recognized as incurred. On balance, exclusive of the cumulative effect gain recognized, these changes will result in smaller future earnings from the in force block of CRC contracts. The Company has also recorded its variable annuity products offered in Japan in separate account assets and liabilities through December 31, 2003. As the separate account arrangement in Japan is not legally insulated from the general account liabilities of the Company, it does not meet the conditions for separate account reporting under the SOP. The adoption of the SOP will not change the pattern of earnings in the future. Certain other products offered by the Company recorded in separate account assets and liabilities through December 31, 2003, were reclassified to the general account upon adoption of the SOP. 79 Interests in Separate Accounts As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $24 representing unconsolidated interests in its own separate accounts. On January 1, 2004, the Company reclassified $11 to investment in trading securities, where the Companys proportionate beneficial interest in the separate account was less than 20%. In instances where the Companys proportionate beneficial interest was between 20 50%, the Company reclassified $13 of its investment to reflect the Companys proportionate interest in each of the underlying assets of the separate account. Future impacts to net income as a result of adopting these provisions of the SOP will be insignificant. Sales Inducements The Company currently offers enhanced or bonus crediting rates to contract holders on certain of its individual and group annuity products. Effective January 1, 2004, upon adopting the SOP, the future expense associated with offering a bonus will be deferred and amortized over the life of the related contract in a pattern consistent with the amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Effective January 1, 2004, amortization expense associated with expenses previously deferred will be recorded over the remaining life of the contract rather than over the contingent deferred sales charge period. Due to the longer deferral periods, this provision is expected to have a small positive impact to earnings in future periods. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is set forth in the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
