FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20031119170949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On November 18, 2003, the Company issued a press release announcing that it priced $300 million of its 7.5% Senior Notes due December 1, 2013. The November 18 press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 19, 2003
 
 
 

Crown Castle International
 
News Release
 
 
 
November 18, 2003  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) today announced that it priced $300 million of its 7.5% Senior Notes due December 1, 2013. Crown Castle expects to use the net proceeds of approximately $293 million from this offering, together with existing cash balances, to tender in the near term for its outstanding 10
 3
/
8
% Senior Discount Notes and 11
 1
/
4
% Senior Discount Notes. Closing of the offering is scheduled for December 2, 2003.
 
The notes are offered solely to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act") and to persons outside of the United States under Regulation S under the Securities Act. The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers and rooftops as well as analog and digital audio and television broadcast transmission systems. Crown Castle offers near-universal broadcast coverage in the United Kingdom and significant wireless communications coverage to 68 of the top 100 United States markets, to more than 95 percent of the UK population and to more than 92 percent of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns,
 
Shaping the wireless world
sm
News Release continued:
 
Page 2 of 2
 
operates and manages over 15,500 wireless communication sites internationally. For more information on Crown Castle, visit: .
www.crowncastle.com
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's current expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to, plans, projections and estimates regarding (i) the use of proceeds from the notes offering and (ii) the effect of the notes offering on our utilization of cash. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions and other factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors which could affect our results is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Shaping the wireless world
sm


