FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20040907165523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
This document includes "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Other than statements of historical fact, all statements regarding industry prospects, the consummation of the transactions described in this document and the Company's expectations regarding the future performance of its businesses and its financial position are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
ITEM 1.02  TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
Contemporaneously with the closing of the sale of Crown Castle UK Holdings Limited ("CCUK") on August 31, 2004, as described under Item 2.01 below, approximately $1.3 billion of the proceeds from the transaction were used to fully repay the Company's 2000 Credit Facility ("Credit Facility"). As a result of such payment, the Amended and Restated Credit and Exchange Offer Agreement dated as of October 10, 2003 among Crown Castle Operating Company, Crown Castle International Corp. de Puerto Rico, Crown Castle International Corp. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, and the several Lenders which are parties thereto, evidencing the Credit Facility, was terminated.
 
ITEM 2.01  COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS
 
On August 31, 2004, Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company") completed the sale of its UK subsidiary, CCUK, to NGG Telecoms Investment Limited ("NGG"), an affiliate of National Grid Transco plc, under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004 ("Share Purchase Agreement") by and among the Company, NGG and National Grid Holdings One plc. The cash proceeds for the CCUK shares and intercompany debt was approximately $2.023 billion, taking into account preliminary working capital type adjustments.
 
The Share Purchase Agreement was previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 28, 2004 and filed with the SEC on June 30, 2004. There is no material relationship between NGG and the Company or any affiliate, director, officer, or associate of the Company.
 
Contemporaneously with the closing of the sale of CCUK, approximately $1.3 billion of the proceeds from the transaction were used to fully repay the Credit Facility.
 
ITEM 7.01  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On August 31, 2004, the Company issued a press release ("August 31 Release") announcing the closing of the sale of CCUK and the repayment of the Credit Facility. The August 31 Release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
The Company is filing as Exhibit 99.1 hereto the following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information, which is based on the historical financial statements of the Company and its majority and wholly-owned subsidiaries, adjusted to give effect to (i) the sale of CCUK and (ii) the repayment of the Credit Facility ("Transactions"):
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Information for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the six months ended June 30, 2004 give effect to the Transactions as if they had occurred as of January 1, 2003. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2004 gives effect to the Transactions as if they had been completed as of June 30, 2004.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
As described in Item 9.01(b) of this Report, the following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
As described in Item 7.01 of this Report, the following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: September 7, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is based on the historical financial statements of Crown Castle International Corp. and its majority and wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Company"), adjusted to give effect to the following transactions:
 
 
 
On June 28, 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell CCUK to an affiliate of National Grid Transco Plc for $2.035 billion in cash. On August 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of CCUK. In accordance with the terms of the Company's 2000 Credit Facility, the Company was required to use approximately $1.3 billion of the proceeds from the transaction to fully repay the outstanding borrowings under the 2000 Credit Facility.
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Information for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the six months ended June 30, 2004 give effect to these transactions as if they had occurred as of January 1, 2003. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2004 gives effect to these transactions as if they had been completed as of June 30, 2004. The pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes and are based upon available information and certain assumptions that management believes are reasonable.
 
Included in the notes accompanying the pro forma financial information are tables summarizing the unaudited pro forma results of operations information and balance sheet information for the Company and its subsidiaries that are restricted by covenants in our high yield debt instruments (the "Restricted Group"). These subsidiaries exclude Crown Atlantic and certain investment subsidiaries which are designated as unrestricted subsidiaries under our high yield debt instruments.
 
The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what the Company's results of operations or financial condition would actually have been had these transactions in fact occurred on such dates or to project the Company's results of operations or financial condition for any future date or period. The pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables summarize the unaudited pro forma results of operations information for the Restricted Group under our high yield debt instruments. Such information is not intended as an alternative measure of the operating results as would be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the adjustments for the CCUK sale, with increases to liabilities and stockholders' equity balances shown as negative amounts:
 
 
The following table summarizes the adjustments for the required repayment of the 2000 Credit Facility, with increases to liabilities and stockholders' equity balances shown as negative amounts:
 
 
The following table summarizes the unaudited pro forma balance sheet information for the Restricted Group under our high yield debt instruments. Such information is not intended as an alternative measure of financial position as would be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 

 
 
 
AUGUST 31, 2004  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE: CCI) announced today the completion of the sale of its UK subsidiary to National Grid Transco Plc for $2.035 billion in cash. Contemporaneously with the closing of the sale, Crown Castle used approximately $1.3 billion of the proceeds from the transaction to fully repay the credit facility of its restricted group operating company.
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 68 of the top 100 United States markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 10,600 and over 1,300 wireless communication sites in the U.S. and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle visit: .
http://www.crowncastle.com
 


