FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20040820150359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
As described in Item 9 of this Report, the following Exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
On June 28, 2004 and June 30, 2004, the Company filed Current Reports on Form 8-K reporting that the Company had entered into a definitive agreement to sell its UK subsidiary, Crown Castle UK Holdings Limited ("CCUK"), to NGG Telecoms Investment Limited, an affiliate of National Grid Transco Plc. The Company is furnishing as Exhibit 99.1 hereto the following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information, which is based on the historical financial statements of the Company and its majority and wholly-owned subsidiaries, adjusted to give effect to (i) the sale of CCUK and (ii) the repayment of the Company's 2000 Credit Facility following closing of the sale of CCUK ("Transactions"):
 
 
 
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Information for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the six months ended June 30, 2004 give effect to the Transactions as if they had occurred as of January 1, 2003. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2004 gives effect to the Transactions as if they had been completed as of June 30, 2004. Subject to closing conditions described in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on June 30, 2004 (most of which have been satisfied), the sale of CCUK is expected to close on or before September 30, 2004.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 20, 2004
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is based on the historical financial statements of Crown Castle International Corp. and its majority and wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Company"), adjusted to give effect to the following transactions:
 
 
 
On June 28, 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell CCUK to National Grid Transco Plc for $2.035 billion in cash. The closing date of the transaction, subject to certain approvals, is expected to be on or before September 30, 2004. In accordance with the terms of the Company's 2000 Credit Facility, the Company will be required to use approximately $1.3 billion of the proceeds from the transaction to fully repay the outstanding borrowings under the 2000 Credit Facility.
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Information for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the six months ended June 30, 2004 give effect to these transactions as if they had occurred as of January 1, 2003. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2004 gives effect to these transactions as if they had been completed as of June 30, 2004. The pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes and are based upon available information and certain assumptions that management believes are reasonable.
 
Included in the notes accompanying the pro forma financial information are tables summarizing the unaudited pro forma results of operations information and balance sheet information for the Company and its subsidiaries that are restricted by covenants in our high yield debt instruments (the "Restricted Group"). These subsidiaries exclude Crown Atlantic and certain investment subsidiaries which are designated as unrestricted subsidiaries under our high yield debt instruments.
 
The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what the Company's results of operations or financial condition would actually have been had these transactions in fact occurred on such dates or to project the Company's results of operations or financial condition for any future date or period. The pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables summarize the unaudited pro forma results of operations information for the Restricted Group under our high yield debt instruments. Such information is not intended as an alternative measure of the operating results as would be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the adjustments for the CCUK sale, with increases to liabilities and stockholders' equity balances shown as negative amounts:
 
 
The following table summarizes the adjustments for the required repayment of the 2000 Credit Facility, with increases to liabilities and stockholders' equity balances shown as negative amounts:
 
 
The following table summarizes the unaudited pro forma balance sheet information for the Restricted Group under our high yield debt instruments. Such information is not intended as an alternative measure of financial position as would be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 


