FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20040415060139.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On April 14, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing that it has increased certain elements of its outlook for full year 2004. The April 14 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 14, 2004
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
[CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL NEWS RELEASE GRAPHIC]
 
 
April 14, 2004HOUSTON, TEXASCrown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) today announced it has increased its 2004 outlook, based primarily on stronger than expected leasing demand in the first half of 2004.
 
For the full year 2004, Crown Castle has adjusted certain elements of its financial guidance, including raising its site rental and broadcast transmission revenue outlook for the full year 2004 from between $860 million and $870 million to between $875 million and $885 million, an increase of $15 million. Crown Castle has raised its expectations for adjusted EBITDA from between $455 million and $470 million to between $465 million and $475 million and for free cash flow outlook from between $145 million and $160 million to between $150 million and $160 million for the full year 2004. Crown Castle's outlook reflects increased leasing activity in the United States and a projected use of working capital of approximately $10 million for the full year 2004.
 
Crown Castle will be discussing its 2004 outlook and other aspects of its business in more detail during its Analyst Day on April 15, 2004. The Analyst Day presentations will be available live via webcast at 10 a.m. eastern time at http://www.crowncastle.com, where they will also be archived for replay. Materials related to the Analyst Day presentations are also available at http://www.crowncastle.com.
 
Crown Castle plans to release its first quarter 2004 results after the close of trading on May 5, 2004.
OUTLOOK
 
The following outlook table is based on current expectations and assumptions and assumes a US dollar to UK pound exchange rate of 1.75 dollars to 1.00 pound and a US dollar to Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.70 US dollars to 1.00 Australian dollar. This Outlook section contains forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Information regarding potential risks which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements herein are set forth below and in Crown Castle's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The following table sets forth Crown Castle's current outlook for the full year 2004 ():
dollars in millions
 
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers and rooftop sites as well as analog and digital audio and television broadcast transmission systems. Crown Castle offers near-universal broadcast coverage in the United Kingdom and significant wireless communications coverage in the United States, United Kingdom and Australia. The company owns, operates and manages over 15,500 wireless communication sites internationally. For more information on Crown Castle visit: .
http://www.crowncastle.com
 
 
This press release includes presentations of Free Cash Flow and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Crown Castle defines Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (both amounts from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows). Crown Castle defines Adjusted EBITDA as net loss plus cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, minority interests, provision for income taxes, interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock, interest and other income (expense), depreciation, amortization and accretion, non-cash general and administrative compensation charges, asset write-down charges and restructuring charges (credits). Free Cash Flow and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended as alternative measures of operating results or cash flow from operations (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles). Further, our measure of Free Cash Flow and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Free Cash Flow is presented as additional information because management believes it to be a useful indicator of our ability to execute our business strategy without reliance on additional borrowing or the use of our cash and liquid investments. Adjusted EBITDA is presented as additional information because management believes it to be a useful indicator of the current financial performance of our core businesses. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations. The tables set forth below reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
Free Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2004 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA for the year ending December 31, 2004 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on our management's current expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to plans, projections and estimates regarding (i) site rental and broadcast transmission revenues, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) capital expenditures, (iv) free cash flow, (v) adjusted EBITDA, (vi) leasing activity and rates, and (vii) currency exchange rates. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to prevailing market conditions and the following:
 
 
Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors that could affect our results is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


