FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20051003190308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On October 3, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that it has commenced an evaluation of strategic alternatives for its investment in Crown Castle Australia. The October 3 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 3, 2005
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
October 3, 2005  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) today announced it has commenced an evaluation of strategic alternatives for its investment in Crown Castle Australia ("CC Australia"), which may directly or indirectly include a leveraged recapitalization or a sale of part or all of its interests in a transaction involving an Australian initial public offering or a private sale. CC Australia is the largest independent tower operator in Australia with 1,387 towers, which were primarily acquired from Vodafone Australia and Cable and Wireless Optus in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Crown Castle owns 77.6% of CC Australia.
 
There can be no assurance that Crown Castle will undertake or pursue any particular action or alternative as a result of this review. UBS Investment Bank has been engaged to act as the advisor for this review.
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 76 of the top 100 United States markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 11,000 and 1,300 wireless communication sites in the U.S. and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle visit:
http://www.crowncastle.com.
 


