FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20051130200615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 30, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing it has (1) exercised its redemption right with respect to its $200 million 8 
 1
/
4
% Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, (2) amended its revolving credit facility, and (3) updated certain elements of its outlook for full year 2006. The November 30 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 30, 2005
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
November 30, 2005  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) today announced it has amended and increased its revolving credit facility and has exercised its redemption right for its $200 million 8 
 1
/
4
% Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Preferred Stock") held by an affiliate of GE.
 
Under the terms of the amended credit agreement, Crown Castle's revolving credit facility has been increased from $275 million to $325 million. As permitted under the amended terms, Crown Castle will use $150 million of borrowings and approximately $54 million of existing cash balances to fund the redemption of the Preferred Stock and accrued dividends. The redemption eliminates the potential conversion of the Preferred Stock into 7.44 million shares of common stock, or 3.5% of common shares outstanding.
 
Crown Castle expects that as of December 16, 2005, the anticipated redemption date of the Preferred Stock, the revolving credit facility will be drawn $295 million. Additional borrowings under the credit facility may be used for capital expenditures and acquisitions, subject to certain conditions. Further, the termination date of the revolving credit facility has been extended to November 28, 2006. No other material terms of the revolving credit facility were amended.
 
OUTLOOK
 
The following statements and outlook tables are based on current expectations and assumptions and assume a US dollar to Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.76 US dollars to 1.00 Australian dollars. Crown Castle's outlook contains forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Information regarding potential risks which could cause actual results to
 
 
differ from the forward-looking statements herein is set forth below and in Crown Castle's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Crown Castle has revised its outlook for full year 2006 to reflect the increased interest expense related to the amended revolving credit facility. Crown Castle's outlook for the fourth quarter and full year 2005 has remained unchanged from the outlook issued on October 26, 2005.
 
The following table sets forth Crown Castle's current outlook for the fourth quarter of 2005 and full year 2005:
 
 
The following table sets forth Crown Castle's current outlook for full year 2006:
 
 
 
INVESTORS' DAY DETAILS
 
Crown Castle is hosting its Investors' Day tomorrow, December 1, 2005. The Investors' Day will be webcast live over the Internet at . During the Investors' Day, Crown Castle will be discussing its core tower business, Crown Castle Mobile Media and its investment in FiberTower. The Investors' Day presentations will be available live via webcast from 10:00 a.m. until approximately 2:30 p.m. eastern time and archived for replay for at least 90 days at . Materials related to the Investors' Day presentations will also be available at .
http://www.crowncastle.com
http://www.crowncastle.com
http://www.crowncastle.com
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers and rooftops. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 68 of the top 100 United States markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 11,000 and 1,300 wireless communication sites in the U.S. and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle visit: .
http://www.crowncastle.com
 
 
This press release includes presentations of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Crown Castle defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations, minority interests, credit (provision) for income taxes, interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs, interest and other income (expense), depreciation, amortization and accretion, operating non-cash compensation charges, asset write-down charges and restructuring charges (credits). Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results (as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)). Adjusted EBITDA is presented as additional information because management believes it to be a useful indicator of the current financial performance of our core businesses. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations.
 
Crown Castle defines recurring cash flow to be Adjusted EBITDA, less interest expense and less sustaining capital expenditures. Each of the amounts included in the calculation of recurring cash flow are computed in accordance with GAAP, with the exception of sustaining capital expenditures, which is not defined under GAAP. Sustaining capital expenditures are defined as capital expenditures (determined in accordance with GAAP) which do not increase the capacity or term of an asset. Recurring cash flow is not intended as an alternative measure of cash flow from operations (as determined in accordance with GAAP). Recurring cash flow is provided as additional information because management believes it to be useful in providing investors with a reasonable estimate of our cash flow available for discretionary investments (including expansion projects, improvements to existing sites, debt repayment, securities purchases and dividends) without reliance on additional borrowing or the use of our cash and cash equivalents.
 
Our measures of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. The tables set forth below reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter ending December 31, 2005 and the years ending December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
Recurring Cash Flow for the quarter ending December 31, 2005 and the years ending December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
 
Other Calculations:
 
Sustaining Capital Expenditures for the quarter ending December 31, 2005 and the year ending December 31, 2005 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
Site Rental Gross Margin for the quarter ending December 31, 2005 and for the years ending December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
 
Recurring Cash Flow for the quarter ending December 31, 2005 and for the years ending December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006 is forecasted as follows:
 
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on our management's current expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to, plans, projections and estimates regarding (i) the redemption of the 8 
 1
/
4
% Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, (ii) use of proceeds of the amended credit facility, (iii) amount of outstanding borrowings under the amended credit facility, (iv) currency exchange rates, (iv) site rental revenue, (v) site rental cost of operations, (vi) site rental gross margin, (vii) Adjusted EBITDA, (viii) interest expense, (ix) sustaining capital expenditures, (x) recurring cash flow, (xi) revenue enhancing capital expenditures on existing sites, (xii) land purchases, (xiii) new site construction, and (xiv) revenue generating capital expenditures. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to prevailing market conditions and the following:
 
 
 
 
Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors which could affect our results is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


