FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20050629162003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
A summary of the current elements of compensation for non-employee members of the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 29, 2005
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Each newly appointed or elected non-employee director is granted, pursuant to the Company's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan or 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, a number of unrestricted shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") having a valuation equal to approximately $90,000, valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the effective date of such director's appointment or election.
.
Initial Equity Grant
 
At the Board's first regularly scheduled meeting of each year, each non-employee director is granted shares of Common Stock having a valuation equal to $55,000, valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the date of such first Board meeting.
.
Annual Equity Grant
 
Each non-employee director receives an annual retainer of $20,000 (plus an additional $10,000 for the Audit Committee chairman and an additional $5,000 for each other Board committee chairman) paid quarterly and reimbursement of reasonable incidental expenses. Each non-employee director also receives $1,500 for attendance at each Board meeting held "in person" and $1,000 for attendance at each Board meeting held by conference call. In addition, each non-employee director receives $1,500 for each Board committee meeting attended (plus, in the case of a Board committee chairman, an additional $1,000 for each committee meeting after the fourth such meeting in any given year).
.
Retainer and Fees
 
Each non-employee director is eligible to participate, at such director's cost and election, in the Company's medical and dental plans.
.
Other Benefits
 
A director who is also an employee of the Company receives no additional compensation for services as a director.
.
Employee Directors


