FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20060817162332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02  DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
On August 17, 2006, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company") increased the number of directors on the Board to 10 and appointed W. Benjamin Moreland to the Board as a Class III director. Mr. Moreland has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") of the Company since February 2004. He was appointed CFO and Treasurer of the Company in April 2000. Prior to being appointed CFO, he had served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries since October 1999.
ITEM 9.01 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
The information in this Item 9.01 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 17, 2006
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DRAFT
August 17, 2006  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) announced today that the Board of Directors has appointed W. Benjamin Moreland, Crown Castle's Chief Financial Officer, as a director, filling a vacant position on the board. With the appointment of Mr. Moreland, Crown Castle has ten directors on its board, of which eight are independent directors as defined by the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Moreland was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Crown Castle in April 2000. Prior to April 2000, he served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Crown Castle and its domestic subsidiaries from October 1999. Mr. Moreland joined Crown Castle following 15 years with Chase Manhattan Bank, primarily in corporate finance and real estate investment banking.
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers and rooftops. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 76 of the top 100 United States markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 11,000 and 1,300 wireless communication sites in the U.S. and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle visit:
http://www.crowncastle.com.


