FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20070502164636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 2, 2007, the Company issued a press release disclosing its financial results for the first quarter of 2007. The May 2 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
As described in Item 2.02 of this Report, the following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
   
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
- 2 -
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
- 4 -
 

SEGMENT RESULTS
US si
te rental revenue for the first quarter of 2007 increased $134.6 million, or 89.7%, to $284.8 million, compared to first quarter 2006 US site rental revenue of $150.1 million. US site rental revenue for the first quarter of 2007 benefited by approximately $3.8 million of out of run-rate items, a portion of which was expected. US site rental gross margin increased $78.9 million, or 75.3%, to $183.7 million in the first quarter of 2007 from the same period in 2006.
Australia si
te rental revenue for the first quarter of 2007 increased $3.3 million, or 27.9%, to $15.0 million, compared to $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2006. Australia site rental gross margin for the first quarter of 2007 increased $2.7 million, or 35.2%, to $10.3 million, compared to first quarter of 2006 Australia site rental gross margin of $7.6 million.
INVESTMENTS AND LIQUIDITY
During the first quarter of 2007, Crown Castle invested approximately $647.5 million in stock purchases and capital expenditures. Capital expenditures was comprised of $2.8 million of sustaining capital expenditures and $44.3 million of revenue generating capital expenditures, of which $26.0 million was spent on land purchases, $11.0 million on existing sites, and $7.3 million on the construction of new sites. Also, during the first quarter of 2007, Crown Castle purchased 17.7 million of its common shares using approximately $600 million in cash, reducing Crown Castles post-Merger common shares outstanding by approximately 6%. Common shares outstanding at March 31, 2007 were 281.6 million.
We continue our focus on growing long-term recurring cash flow per share, stated Ben Moreland, Chief Financial Officer of Crown Castle. While the comparison of recurring cash flow per share for the first quarter 2007 to the first quarter 2006 was negatively impacted by the short-term dilutive effect of borrowings to reduce actual and potential shares outstanding, we believe the actions we have taken will deliver long-term growth in this measure consistent with our long-term objectives. Further, although the comparisons of revenue and Adjusted EBITDA to prior period results are not comparable given the impact of the Merger, we believe the comparison of recurring cash flow per share will be useful in analyzing our future results as it includes operating results, the full capital cost of the Merger and the $2.0 billion we have spent since 2003 on purchases of our securities to reduce fully diluted common shares outstanding. As illustrated by the implicit growth in the recurring cash flow per share in our 2007 outlook for the second half of 2007, we believe the
 
 
combination of our managements operation of these towers and our efficient capital structure positions us very well to realize our long-term objective of growing annual recurring cash flow per share 20% to 25%.
OUTLOOK
The following Outlook tables are based on current expectations and assumptions. The Outlook tables include the expected impact of the Merger on our results from January 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007 and assume a US dollar to Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.75 US dollars to 1.00 Australian dollars. In addition, the second quarter 2007 outlook includes an expected second quarter increase in Australia site rental revenue from an annual payment of approximately $2 million related to an agreement with one of our customers in Australia. Further, consistent with prior years, Crown Castle expects a seasonal increase of repair and maintenance expense of approximately $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2007 from the first quarter of 2007.
This Outlook section
contains forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Information regarding potential risks which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements herein is set forth below and in Crown Castles filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
 
The following tables set forth Crown Castles current Outlook for the second quarter of 2007 and full year 2007:
 
PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
The following table provides investors with additional information on business trends and does not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations would have been for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, nor are they necessarily indicative of future consolidated results. The pro forma consolidated results are presented for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect the realization of potential cost savings and any related integration costs. The following table contains pro forma Crown Castle results for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, assuming the Merger was completed on January 1 for the periods presented below. As such, these results reflect adjustments to straight-line revenue and straight-line ground lease expense.
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Crown Castle has scheduled a conference call for Thursday, May 3, 2007, at 10:30 a.m. eastern time to discuss the first quarter 2007 results and Crown Castles Outlook. Please dial 303-205-0055 and ask for the Crown Castle call at least 10 minutes prior to the start time. A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available from 1:30 p.m. eastern time on Thursday, May 3, 2007 through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on Thursday, May 10, 2007 and may be accessed by dialing 303-590-3000 using passcode 11088623#. An audio archive will also be available on Crown Castles website at
http://www.crowncastle.com
shortly after the call and will be accessible for approximately 90 days.
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 91 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 22,000 and over 1,400 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle, please visit
http://www.crowncastle.com
.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, Crown Castle recognizes site rental revenues and ground lease expenses monthly on a straight-line basis, regardless of whether the receipts and payments are in equal monthly amounts.
An agreement, related to an acquisition in Australia, provides the seller with a rent-free period at the beginning of the lease term, and other agreements call for rent to be prepaid for a specified period. If and to the extent the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), the effect of such increases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the appropriate lease term. As a result of this accounting method, a portion of the revenue and expense recognized in a given period represents cash collected or paid in other periods.
A summary of the non-cash portions of our site rental revenue, ground lease expense, stock-based compensation for those employees directly related to U.S. tower operations, and resulting impact on site rental gross margins is as follows:
This press release includes presentations of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Crown Castle defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, losses on purchases and redemptions of debt, interest and other income (expense), interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, benefit (provision) for income taxes, minority interests, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and stock-based compensation charges. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of cash flow from operations or operating results (as determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)).
Crown Castle defines recurring cash flow to be Adjusted EBITDA, less interest expense and less sustaining capital expenditures. Each of the amounts included in the calculation of recurring cash flow are computed in accordance with GAAP, with the exception of sustaining capital expenditures, which is not defined under GAAP. Sustaining capital expenditures are defined as capital expenditures (determined in accordance with GAAP) which do not increase the capacity or term of an asset. Recurring cash flow is not intended as an alternative measure of cash flow from operations or operating results (as determined in accordance with GAAP). Recurring cash flow per share is not intended to be an alternative measure of earnings per share.
Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow are presented as additional information because management believes these measures are useful indicators of the financial performance of our core businesses. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure of current financial performance used in our debt covenant calculations. Our measures of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower industry and in the historical financial statements of Global Signal. The tables set forth below reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable GAAP Financial Measures:
Adjusted EBITDA, recurring cash flow and recurring cash flow per share for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006 are computed as follows
:
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow for the quarter ending June 30, 2007 and the year ending
December 31, 2007 are forecasted as follows:
 
 
Other Calculations:
Sustaining capital expenditures for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006 is computed as follows:
 
Site rental gross margin for the quarter ending June 30, 2007 and for the year ending December 31, 2007 is forecasted as follows
:
This press release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on our managements current expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to, plans, projections, Outlook and estimates regarding (i) integration of the Global Signal assets, including the timing thereof, (ii) the potential impact and benefits of borrowings, share purchases and the Merger, including the Merger synergies, (iii) leasing demand for space on our towers, (iv) the utility of certain financial measures in analyzing our results, (v) currency exchange rates, (vi) site rental revenue, (vii) site rental cost of operations, (viii) site rental gross margin, (ix) Adjusted EBITDA, (x) interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, (xi) sustaining capital expenditures, (xii) recurring cash flow (including recurring cash flow per share) and (xiii) net loss (including net loss per share). Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to prevailing market conditions and the following:
 
Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors which could affect our results is included in our filings with the SEC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CROP.
Summary Fact Sheet
(in $ thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted EBITDA) to GAAP Financial Measure:
(in $ thousands)
 
 
 
CCI FACT SHEET Q1 2006 TO Q1 2007
$ in thousands
 
 
 
 


