FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20070628140125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
                  
               
       
      
- 1 -
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
ITEM 7.01 
 
On June 27, 2007, Crown Castle International Corp. (Company) issued a press release announcing that it has reiterated its outlook for the second quarter and full year 2007. The June 27, 2007 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 8.01  OTHER EVENTS
 
On June 27, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that . The Company is party to a stockholders agreement with such selling stockholders. In connection with the proposed offering, the Company has agreed to waive the remainder of an initial 180-day lock-up that would have limited the number of shares that can be sold by such selling stockholders. The lock-up was otherwise due to expire on July 12, 2007. The June 27, 2007 press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
certain of its stockholders are commencing a secondary offering of
approximately 36.4
million
shares of its common stock
 
pursuant to an automatic shelf
registration statement
on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-140452)
that Crown Castle previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on February 5, 2007
ITEM 9.01 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
- 2 -
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX
- 4 -
 

Exhibit 99.1 
   
 
                                                                                                         Contacts:   Ben Moreland, CFO
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       Jay Brown, Treasurer
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
      Crown Castle International Corp.
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
                    713-570-3000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 27, 2007  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle today reiterated its Outlook for the second quarter and full year 2007, as previously provided on May 2, 2007.
 
 Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 91 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 22,000 and over 1,400 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle, please visit
   
http://www.crowncastle.com
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on our managements current expectations.  Such statements include, but are not limited to, plans, projections, and estimates regarding our Outlook, including as such Outlook relates to (i) site rental revenue, (ii) site rental cost of operations, (iii) site rental gross margin, (iv) Adjusted EBITDA, (v) interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, (vi) sustaining capital expenditures, (vii) recurring cash flow (including recurring cash flow per share) and (viii) net loss (including net loss per share).  Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to prevailing market conditions and the following:
Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors which could affect our results is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
                                                                                                         Contacts:   Ben Moreland, CFO
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       Jay Brown, Treasurer
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
      Crown Castle International Corp.
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
                    713-570-3000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
June 27, 2007  HOUSTON, TEXASCrown Castle International Corp. (NYSE: CCI) today announced that certain of its stockholders are commencing a secondary offering of 36,392,081 of its common shares pursuant to a registration statement that Crown Castle previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The shares of common stock are being offered by funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC, Greenhill Capital Partners, LLC and certain of its affiliated investment funds, and certain investment funds affiliated with Abrams Capital, LLC.  Crown Castle will not receive any proceeds from the sale of its common shares by the selling stockholders.
 
 
This offering is being made only by means of a prospectus and related prospectus supplement. An effective registration statement is on file with the SEC and a copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement, together with the prospectus, will be available on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated will be sole book runner of the offering. Allen & Company LLC and Bank of America Securities LLC will serve as co-managers of the offering. The preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus may also be obtained by contacting Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10014, 866-718-1649, or by e-mail at .
prospectus@morganstanley.com
 
 
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
 
 
Crown Castle International Corp. engineers, deploys, owns and operates technologically advanced shared wireless infrastructure, including extensive networks of towers. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 91 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 22,000 and over 1,400 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle, please visit
http://www.crowncastle.com
.
 
 
 
This press release contains various forward-looking statements and information that are based on management's belief, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. Forward-looking information includes statements regarding the secondary offering, including the timing thereof. Furthermore, the closing of the offering is subject to several conditions to closing, which have not yet been satisfied. Although the management of Crown Castle believes that the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, Crown Castle can give no assurance that those expectations will prove to have been correct. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions and other factors.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected.  More information about potential risk factors that could affect the results of Crown Castle is included in Crown Castles filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOURCE: Crown Castle International Corp.
 


