FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20070529205450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On May 24, 2007, at the 2007 annual meeting ("Annual Meeting") of the stockholders ("Stockholders") of Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company"), the Stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan ("2004 Plan") to increase by an additional 3,000,000 shares the number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved and available for future grants under the 2004 Plan ("2004 Plan Amendment"). A summary description of the terms of the 2004 Plan and the 2004 Plan Amendment is set forth in the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 2007 ("Proxy Statement") under the title "Proposal to Amend our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan". The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the 2004 Plan, as amended by the 2004 Plan Amendment, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) On May 24, 2007, at the Annual Meeting, the Stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, as described in the Proxy Statement. The Amended and Restated Certificated of Incorporation of the Company ("Amended and Restated Charter"), as approved by the Stockholders, became effective upon the filing of the Amended and Restated Charter with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 24, 2007. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Charter which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On May 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") adopted amended and restated By-laws ("New By-laws") for the Company. Modifications in the New By-laws as compared to the prior Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company dated August 21, 1998, as amended, include (1) eliminating all references to our previously authorized Class A Common Stock and all rights that were specific to such Class A Common Stock, (2) eliminating all references to our prior Stockholders Agreement dated August 21, 1998, as amended, and our prior Governance Agreement dated August 21, 1998, (3) clarifying officers that may act in connection with certain ministerial acts of the Company, such as calling a special meeting of the Board or Stockholders, assigning duties to the officers and agents of the Company and signing stock certificates, (4) updating the procedures required of a Stockholder wishing to present a proposal, nominee for the Board or other business at a meeting of Stockholders, (5) providing that the Board and the Chairman of the Board shall have the authority to (i) prescribe rules and regulations relating to the conduct of any meeting of Stockholders and (ii) determine whether a matter has been properly brought before any such meeting, (6) providing that waivers of notice by a Stockholder or director and consents relating to Board action without a meeting may be made by electronic transmission, (7) clarifying the delegation of the powers and authority of the Board's committees, (8) eliminating the provision providing that holders of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to a signed share certificate upon request, (9) providing that attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute waiver of notice of such a meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting that the meeting has not been lawfully called or convened and (10) making certain other clerical, clarification and drafting modifications. The foregoing summary of the New By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete provisions of the New By-laws which are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 29, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The present name of the corporation is Crown Castle International Corp. The corporation was originally incorporated on April 20, 1995, under the name "Castle Tower Holding Corp." by the filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, which certificate was restated on August 21, 1998 (such restated certificate, as subsequently amended, the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation"). This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, which both restates and further amends the provisions of the corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") is:
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and incorporated under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is six hundred twenty million (620,000,000), consisting of twenty million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as "Preferred Stock"), and six hundred million (600,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as "Common Stock").
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.
A. The undesignated Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Board of Directors") is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a "Preferred Stock Designation"), to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
Undesignated Preferred Stock.
1. The designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title.
2. The number of shares of the series, which number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding).
3. The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in respect of dividends, and whether such dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or noncumulative.
4. Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.
5. The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series.
6. The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series.
 
7. The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
8. Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series or such other security, the conversion or exchange price or prices or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates at which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made.
9. Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series.
10. The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series.
B.
Common Stock.
1. The holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each such share upon all questions presented to the stockholders. The holders of the shares of Common Stock shall at all times, except as otherwise provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or as required by applicable law, vote together with the holders of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation accorded such general voting rights, as one class.
General.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise required by applicable law, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any Preferred Stock Designation) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any Preferred Stock Designation) or pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
2. In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment of all preferential amounts required to be paid to the holders of Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of Common Stock then outstanding shall share ratably in any distribution of the remaining assets and funds of the Corporation in proportion to the respective amounts which would otherwise be payable in respect of the shares held by them upon such distribution if all amounts payable on or with respect to such shares were paid in full.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.
C.
Designated Preferred Stock.
1. Pursuant to authority conferred by this Article IV upon the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors
Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock.
 
created a series of 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock by filing a Preferred Stock Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 21, 1998, which was amended on August 2, 2000, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock of the Corporation are as set forth in hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Annex 1
2. Pursuant to authority conferred by this Article IV upon the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors created a series of 8,050,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as 6.25% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock by filing a Preferred Stock Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 2, 2000, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the 6.25% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation are as set forth in hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
6.25% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
Annex 2
In furtherance of, and not in limitation of, the powers conferred by law and subject to the other provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the Amended and Restated By-laws of the Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "By-laws"), the Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered:
(1) to adopt, amend or repeal the By-laws; , , that the By-laws adopted by the Board of Directors under the powers hereby conferred may be amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto; , , that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock (as hereinafter defined), voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal any provision of the By-laws or to adopt any additional By-law; and
provided
however
provided
further
(2) from time to time to determine whether and to what extent, and at what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of stockholders; and, except as so determined or as expressly provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or in any Preferred Stock Designation, no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account, book or document of the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by applicable law.
 
The Corporation may in its By-laws confer powers upon the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by applicable law.
Except as otherwise specified with respect to any series of Preferred Stock, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Directors") under specified circumstances, the number of Directors shall initially be 12 and may hereafter be changed from time to time solely by the Board of Directors.
Unless and except to the extent that the By-laws shall so require, the election of Directors need not be by written ballot.
The Directors, other than those Directors who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock (the "Non-Classified Directors"), shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, initially consisting of 3, 3 and 4 Directors. One class of Directors initially consisting of 3 Directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1999, another class initially consisting of 3 Directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2000, and another class initially consisting of 4 Directors shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2001. Members of each class shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation commencing with the 1999 annual meeting, Directors (other than Non-Classified Directors) elected to succeed those Directors whose terms expire shall be elected by a plurality vote at such meeting to hold office for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each Director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created Directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority
 
of the remaining Directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and Directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until such Director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Except for such additional Directors, if any, as are elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, any Director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
Each person who is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect. The Corporation may, by action of the Board of Directors, provide indemnification to other employees and agents of the Corporation, to directors, officers, employees or agents of a subsidiary, and to each person serving as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, at the request of the Corporation, with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of Directors and officers of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify any person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise by the Corporation. Without limiting the generality of the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person which provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in this Article VIII. Any amendment or repeal of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
A Director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a Director, except for liability (1) for any breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (2) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which
 
involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (3) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (4) for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. Any amendment or repeal of this Article IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director of the Corporation existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware shall be amended, to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the liability of Directors, then a Director of the Corporation, in addition to the circumstances in which he is not liable immediately prior to such amendment, shall be free of liability to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as so amended.
The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issuance and sale of any of its stock or other securities or property, rights entitling the holders of securities of the Corporation to purchase from the Corporation shares of stock or other securities of the Corporation or any other corporation, recognizing that, under certain circumstances, the creation and issuance of such rights could have the effect of discouraging third parties from seeking, or impairing their ability to seek, to acquire a significant portion of the outstanding securities of the Corporation, to engage in any transaction which might result in a change of control of the Corporation or to enter into any agreement, arrangement or understanding with another party to accomplish the foregoing or for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any securities of the Corporation. The times at which and the terms upon which such rights are to be issued will be determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in the contracts or instruments that evidence such rights. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to such rights shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(A) The initial purchase price per share or other unit of the stock or other securities or property to be purchased upon exercise of such rights.
(B) Provisions relating to the times at which and the circumstances under which such rights may be exercised or sold or otherwise transferred, either together with or separately from, any other stock or other securities of the Corporation.
(C) Provisions which adjust the number or exercise price of such rights or amount or nature of the stock or other securities or property receivable upon exercise of such rights in the event of a combination, split or recapitalization of any stock of the Corporation, a change in ownership of the Corporation's stock or other securities or a reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other
occurrence relating to the Corporation or any stock of the Corporation, and provisions restricting the ability of the Corporation to enter into any such transaction absent an assumption by the other party or parties thereto of the obligations of the Corporation under such rights.
(D) Provisions which deny the holder of the specified percentage of the outstanding stock or other securities of the Corporation the right to exercise such rights and/or cause the rights held by such holder to become void.
(E) Provisions which permit the Corporation to redeem or exchange such rights, which redemption or exchange may be within the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, if the Board of Directors reserves such right to itself.
(F) The appointment of the rights agent with respect to such rights.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, in addition to any other vote required by applicable law, the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with this Article X.
Except as may be expressly provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Designation, and any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by applicable law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, Directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article XI; , , that any amendment or repeal of Article VIII or Article IX of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing thereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment, alteration, change or repeal, and provided further that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of series of Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock Designation and the requirements of applicable law.
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, and in addition to approval by the Board of Directors and any other vote of stockholders required by applicable law, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting
Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with paragraph (1) of Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article X or this second paragraph of this Article XI. For the purposes of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, "Voting Stock" shall mean the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in a general vote of stockholders of the Corporation as a single class with shares of Common Stock.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation on this 24th day of May, 2007.
 
 
ANNEX 1
SECTION 1. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock"). The number of shares initially constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 1,000,000; ,, that, if more than a total of 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be issuable upon the exercise of Rights (the "Rights") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement dated as of August 21, 1998, between the Company and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"), the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, may direct by resolution or resolutions that a certificate be properly executed, acknowledged, filed and recorded, in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, providing for the total number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock authorized to be issued to be increased (to the extent that the Charter then permits) to the largest number of whole shares (rounded up to the nearest whole number) issuable upon exercise of such Rights.
Designation and Number of Shares.
provided
however
SECTION 2. (a) Subject to the superior rights of the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other class of capital stock of the Company ranking superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of the assets of the Company legally available therefor, (1) quarterly dividends payable in cash on the 1st day of February, May, August and November in each year, or such other dates as the Board of Directors of the Company shall approve (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or a fraction of a share of Series A preferred stock, in the amount of $10 per whole share (rounded to the nearest cent) less the amount of all cash dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the following clause (2) since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock (the total of which shall not, in any event, be less than zero) and (2) dividends payable in cash on the payment date for each cash dividend declared on the Common Shares in an amount per whole share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the Formula Number (as hereinafter defined) then in effect times the cash dividends then to be paid on each Common Share. In addition, if the Company shall pay any dividend or make any distribution on the Common Shares payable in assets, securities or other forms of noncash consideration (other than dividends or distributions solely in Common shares), then, in each such case, the Company shall
Dividends or Distributions.
simultaneously pay or make on each outstanding whole share of Series A Preferred Stock a dividend or distribution in like kind equal to the Formula Number then in effect times such dividend or distribution on each Common share. As used herein, the "Formula Number" shall be 10,000; , , that, if at any time after August 21, 1998, the Company shall (i) declare or pay any dividend on the Common Shares payable in shares or make any distribution on the Common Shares in Common Shares, (ii) subdivide (by a stock split or otherwise) the outstanding shares into a larger number of Common Shares or (iii) combine (by a reverse stock split or otherwise) the outstanding Common Shares into a smaller number of Common Shares, then in each such event the Formula Number shall be adjusted to a number determined by multiplying the Formula Number in effect immediately prior to such event by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Common Shares that are outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that are outstanding immediately prior to such event (and rounding the result to the nearest whole number); and that, if at any time after August 21, 1998, the Company shall issue any shares of its capital stock in a merger, reclassification, or change of the outstanding Common Shares, then in each such event the Formula Number shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect such merger, reclassification or change so that each share of Preferred Stock continues to be the economic equivalent of a Formula Number of Common Shares prior to such merger, reclassification or change.
provided
however
provided further
(b) The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2(a) immediately prior to or at the same time it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Shares (other than a dividend or distribution solely in Common Shares); , , that, in the event no dividend or distribution (other than a dividend or distribution in Common Shares) shall have been declared on the Common Shares during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be the same as the record date for any corresponding dividend or distribution on the Common Shares.
provided
however
(c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from and after the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of original issue of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock; , , that dividends on such shares which are originally issued after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and on or prior to the next succeeding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from and after such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock which are originally issued prior to the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date shall be calculated as if cumulative from and after the last day of the fiscal quarter next preceding the date of original issuance of such shares. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the
provided
however
 
shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.
(d) So long as any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividends or other distributions shall be declared, paid or distributed, or set aside for payment or distribution, on the Common Shares unless, in each case, the dividend required by this Section 2 to be declared on the Series A Preferred Stock shall have been declared.
(e) The holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any dividends or other distributions except as provided herein.
SECTION 3. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting rights.
(a) Each holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a number of votes equal to the Formula Number then in effect, for each share of Series A Preferred Stock held of record on each matter on which holders of the Common Shares or stockholders generally are entitled to vote, multiplied by the maximum number of votes per share which any holder of the Common Shares or stockholders generally then have with respect to such matter (assuming any holding period or other requirement to vote a greater number of shares is satisfied).
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein, by the Charter or by applicable law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock (and any other capital stock of the Company at the time entitled thereto) shall vote together as one class for the election of directors of the Company and on all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.
(c) Except as provided herein, in Section 11 or by applicable law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for authorizing or taking any corporate action.
SECTION 4. (a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not:
Certain Restrictions.
(i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
 
dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock; provided that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Company ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(b) The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
SECTION 5. Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, plus an amount equal to the greater of (x) $1,000 per whole share or (y) an aggregate amount per share equal to the Formula Number then in effect times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Shares or (2) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all other such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
Liquidation Rights.
SECTION 6. In case the Company shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the Common Shares are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash or any other property, then in any such case the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share equal
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
 
to the Formula Number then in effect times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each Common Share is exchanged or changed. In the event both this Section 6 and Section 2 appear to apply to a transaction, this Section 6 will control.
SECTION 7. (a) The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be subject to redemption by the Company or at the option of any holder of Series A Preferred Stock; , , that the Company may purchase or otherwise acquire outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock in the open market or by offer to any holder or holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
No Redemption; No Sinking Fund.
provided
however
(b) The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be subject to or entitled to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund.
SECTION 8. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of Preferred Stock of the Company unless the Board of Directors shall specifically determine otherwise in fixing the powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the shares of such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof.
Ranking.
SECTION 9. The Series A Preferred Stock shall be issuable upon exercise of the Rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement in whole shares or in any fraction of a share that is one one-thousandth of a share or any integral multiple of such fraction which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to receive dividends, exercise voting rights, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock. In lieu of fractional shares, the Company, prior to the first issuance of a share or a fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, may elect (a) to make a cash payment as provided in the Rights Agreement for fractions of a share other than one one-thousandths of a share or any integral multiple thereof or (b) to issue depository receipts evidencing such authorized fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to an appropriate agreement between the Company and a depository selected by the Company; that such agreement shall provide that the holders of such depository receipts shall have all the rights, privileges and preferences to which they are entitled as holders of the Series A Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares.
provided
SECTION 10. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of the Charter.
Reacquired Shares.
SECTION 11. In addition to any vote required by applicable law, following the Rights becoming exercisable, none of the powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock as provided herein, in the Company's by-laws or in the Charter shall be
Amendment.
 
amended in any manner which would alter or change the powers, preferences, rights or privileges of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without (i) at least a Majority of the Rights having been exercised by the holders thereof and (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, having been obtained.
 
ANNEX 2
(a) 8,050,000 shares of Preferred Stock are hereby designated by the Board of Directors of the Company. Each share of Preferred Stock will have a liquidation preference of $50.00 (the "Liquidation Preference").
Designation.
(b) All shares of Preferred Stock shall be denominated in United States currency, and all payments and distributions thereon or with respect thereto shall be made in United States currency. All references herein to "$" or "dollars" refer to United States currency.
Currency.
(c) The Preferred Stock shall, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up or dissolution, rank junior to (i) each other class or series of capital stock of the Company, other than (A) the Common Stock of the Company and any other class or series of capital stock of the Company which by its terms ranks junior to the Preferred Stock, as to which the Preferred Stock shall rank prior and (B) any other class or series of capital stock of the Company which by its terms ranks on a parity with the Preferred Stock, as to which the Preferred Stock shall rank on a parity or (ii) other equity interests in the Company, in each case, including, without limitation, warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for or convertible into such capital stock or equity interests, except as provided in the last sentence of this paragraph (c). All equity securities of the Company to which the Preferred Stock ranks prior (whether with respect to dividends or upon liquidation, winding up, dissolution or otherwise), including the Common Stock of the Company, are collectively referred to herein as the "Junior Stock". All equity securities of the Company to which the Preferred Stock ranks on a parity (whether with respect to dividends or upon liquidation, winding up, dissolution or otherwise) are collectively referred to herein as the "Parity Stock". All equity securities of the Company to which the Preferred Stock ranks junior (whether with respect to dividends or upon liquidation, winding up, dissolution or otherwise) are collectively referred to herein as the "Senior Stock". The respective definitions of Junior Stock, Parity Stock and Senior Stock shall also include any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for or convertible into any Junior Stock, Parity Stock or Senior Stock, as the case may be. The Preferred Stock shall, with respect to dividend rights and upon liquidation, winding up or dissolution, rank junior to the Company's 12
Ranking.
 3
/
4
% Series B Senior Exchangeable Preferred Stock due 2010, senior to the Company's Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock, when issued and on a parity with the Company's Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and, if and when issued, the Company's Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
(d) (i) The holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Company out of funds legally available therefor, dividends on the shares of Preferred Stock, cumulative from the first date of issuance of any such shares (the "Initial Issuance Date"), at a rate per annum of 6.25% of the Liquidation Preference per share, payable in cash or common stock, subject to paragraph (l). Dividends on the shares of Preferred Stock shall be payable quarterly in equal amounts (subject to paragraph (d)(v) hereunder with respect to shorter periods, including the first such period with respect to newly issued shares of Preferred Stock) in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, or if any such date is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each such date, a "Dividend Payment Date", and each such quarterly period, a "Dividend Period"), in preference to and in priority over dividends on any Junior Stock. Such dividends shall be paid to the holders of record of the shares of Preferred Stock as they appear on the applicable Record Date. As used herein, the term "Record Date" means, with respect to the dividends payable on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year, respectively, or such other record date, not more than 60 days and not less than 10 days preceding the applicable Dividend Payment Date, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Company. Dividends on the shares of Preferred Stock shall be fully cumulative and shall accrue (whether or not declared and whether or not there are funds of the Company legally available for the payment of dividends) from the Initial Issuance Date (or the last Dividend Payment Date for which dividends were paid, as the case may be) based on a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Accrued and unpaid dividends for any past Dividend Period may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any Dividend Payment Date, to holders of record on such date, not more than 45 days prior to the payment thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Dividends.
(ii) No dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment or other distribution declared or made, whether in cash, obligations or shares of capital stock of the Company or other property, directly or indirectly, upon any shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, nor shall any shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock be redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Company through a sinking fund or otherwise, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends through the most recent preceding Dividend Payment Date (whether or not such dividends have been declared and whether or not there are funds of the Company legally available for the payment of dividends) on the shares of Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid in full; , , that, notwithstanding any provisions in this subparagraph (ii) to the contrary, the Company shall be entitled to (a) declare and pay dividends on shares of Junior Stock payable solely in shares of Junior Stock and on shares of Parity Stock payable solely in shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, or in each case by an increase in the liquidation preference of the Junior Stock or Parity Stock and (b) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire Junior Stock or Parity Stock in exchange for consideration consisting of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, in the case of Parity Stock, or of Junior Stock, in the case of Junior Stock. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of Preferred Stock, all dividends declared on the Preferred Stock and any other Parity Stock shall be declared and paid either (A) pro rata so that the amount of dividends so declared on the shares of
provided
however
 
Preferred Stock and each such other class or series of Parity Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio as accrued dividends on the shares of Preferred Stock and such class or series of Parity Stock bear to each other or (B) on another basis that is at least as favorable to the holders of the Preferred Stock entitled to receive such dividends.
(iii) Any dividend payment made on the Preferred Stock shall first be credited against the dividends accrued with respect to the earliest Dividend Period for which dividends have not been paid.
(iv) All dividends paid with respect to shares of Preferred Stock pursuant to this paragraph (d) shall be paid pro rata to the holders entitled thereto.
(v) Dividends (or cash amounts equal to accrued and unpaid dividends) payable on the Preferred Stock for any period shorter or longer than three months shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed (in a 30-day month) since the applicable Dividend Payment Date or from the Initial Issuance Date with respect to newly issued shares, as applicable, and based on a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. No interest shall accrue or be payable in respect of unpaid dividends.
(e) (i) Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, each holder of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to payment out of the assets of the Company available for distribution of an amount equal to the then effective Liquidation Preference per share of Preferred Stock held by such holder, plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends therein to the date of such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any distribution is made on any Junior Stock, including, without limitation, Common Stock of the Company. After payment in full of an amount equal to the then effective Liquidation Preference and all accumulated and unpaid dividends to which holders of shares of Preferred Stock are entitled, such holders shall not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Company. If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the amounts payable with respect to shares of Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock are not paid in full, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock and the holders of the Parity Stock shall share equally and ratably in any distribution of assets of the Company in proportion to the full liquidation preference and all accumulated and unpaid dividends to which each such holder is entitled.
Liquidation Preference.
(ii) Neither the voluntary sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property or assets of the Company nor the consolidation, merger or amalgamation of the Company with or into any entity or the consolidation, merger or amalgamation of any entity with or into the Company shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company or a reduction or decrease in the capital stock of the Company.
(f) (i) On August 15, 2012, the Company shall be obligated to redeem out of lawfully available funds all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock for cash, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice sent by first
Redemption at Maturity.
 
class mail to each holder's registered address, at an amount equal to 100.0% of the Liquidation Preference per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption.
(ii) When shares of Preferred Stock are to be redeemed pursuant to this paragraph (f), the notice of such redemption shall state: (A) the date fixed for redemption; (B) the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (C) the redemption price; (D) the place or places where such shares of Preferred Stock are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (E) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such date fixed for redemption unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price.
Notice having been given as provided in the preceding paragraph, and if on or before the redemption date specified in such notice, an amount in cash sufficient to redeem in full on the redemption date and at the redemption price all shares of Preferred Stock called for redemption shall have been set apart and deposited in trust so as to be available for such purpose and only for such purpose, or shall have been paid to the holders thereof then effective as of the close of business on such redemption date, and unless there shall be a subsequent default in the payment of the redemption price, the shares of Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall cease to accrue dividends, and such shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding and shall have the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the Company, undesignated as to series, and all rights of the holders thereof, as such, as shareholders of the Company (except the right to receive from the Company the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with such notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Company.
(g) Except as required under Delaware law, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any voting rights as shareholders of the Company except as follows:
Voting Rights.
(i) The affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, voting with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock affected in the same way as a single class, in person or by proxy, at a special or annual meeting called for the purpose, or by written consent in lieu of a meeting, shall be required to amend, repeal or change any provisions of this Certificate of Designations in any manner which would adversely affect, alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Preferred Stock and any such securities affected in the same way; , , that the creation, authorization or issuance of any other class or series of capital stock or the increase or decrease in the amount of authorized capital stock of any such class or series or of the Preferred Stock, shall not require the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock and shall not be deemed to affect adversely, alter or change the powers, preferences and special rights of the shares of Preferred Stock. With respect to any matter on which the holders are entitled to vote as a separate class, each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote.
provided
however
 
(ii) If at any time the equivalent of six quarterly dividends payable on the shares of Preferred Stock are accrued and unpaid (whether or not consecutive and whether or not declared), the holders of all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock or Senior Stock having similar voting rights then exercisable, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, shall be entitled to elect at the next annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company two directors to serve until all dividends accumulated and unpaid on any such voting shares have been paid or declared and funds set aside to provide for payment in full. In exercising any such vote, each outstanding share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote.
(h) (i) Each share of Preferred Stock shall be convertible at any time and from time to time at the option of the holder thereof into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of a share of Preferred Stock, adjusted as hereinafter provided, is referred to herein as the "Conversion Ratio". The Conversion Ratio as of the Initial Issuance Date shall be 1.3559 and shall equal the ratio the numerator of which shall be the Liquidation Preference and the denominator of which shall be the Conversion Price, The Conversion Price shall be $36.875, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in paragraph (j).
Optional Conversion.
(ii) Conversion of shares of Preferred Stock may be effected by any holder upon the surrender to the Company at the principal office of the Company or at the office of the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock (the "Transfer Agent"), as may be designated by the Board of Directors of the Company, of the certificate or certificates for such shares of Preferred Stock to be converted accompanied by a written notice stating that such holder elects to convert all or a specified whole number of such shares in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (h) and specifying the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock to be issued. In case such notice shall specify a name or names other than that of such holder, such notice shall be accompanied by payment of all transfer taxes payable upon the issuance of shares of Common Stock in such name or names. Other than such taxes, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of shares of Preferred Stock pursuant hereto. As promptly as practicable after the surrender of such certificate or certificates and the receipt of such notice relating thereto and, if applicable, payment of all required transfer taxes (or the demonstration to the satisfaction of the Company that such taxes have been paid), the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered (x) certificates representing the number of validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable full shares of Common Stock to which the holder (or the holder's transferee) of shares of Preferred Stock being converted shall be entitled and (y) if less than the full number of shares of Preferred Stock evidenced by the surrendered certificate or certificates is being converted, a new certificate or certificates, of like tenor, for the number of shares evidenced by such surrendered certificate or certificates less the number of shares being converted. Such conversion shall be deemed to have been made at the close of business on the date of giving such notice and of such surrender of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Preferred Stock to be converted so that the rights of the holder thereof as to the shares being converted shall cease except for the right to
 
receive shares of Common Stock and accrued and unpaid dividends with respect to the shares of Preferred Stock being converted, in each case in accordance herewith, and the person entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record holder of such shares of Common Stock at such time.
(iii) If a holder of shares of Preferred Stock exercises conversion rights under paragraph (h)(i), upon delivery of the shares for conversion, such shares shall cease to accrue dividends pursuant to paragraph (d) as of the end of the day immediately preceding the date of such delivery, but such shares shall continue to be entitled to receive all accrued dividends which such holder is entitled to receive through the last preceding Dividend Payment Date unless such conversion follows a call for redemption by the Company in which case pro rata dividends shall also be payable through the date of such call. Any such accrued and unpaid dividends shall be payable by the Company as and when such dividends are paid to any remaining holders or, if none, on the date which would have been the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date had there been remaining holders or such later time at which the Company believes it has adequate available capital under applicable law to make such a payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares of Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion (other than after notice of redemption has been given with respect to such shares) after the close of business on any record date for the payment of dividends declared and prior to the opening of business on the Dividend Payment Date relating thereto must be accompanied by a payment in cash or common stock (pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (i)) of an amount equal to the dividend declared in respect of such shares.
(iv) In case any shares of Preferred Stock are to be redeemed pursuant to paragraph (f), such right of conversion shall cease and terminate, as to the shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed, at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price therefor, as provided herein.
(v) In connection with the conversion of any shares of Preferred Stock, no fractions of shares of Common Stock shall be required to be issued, but in lieu thereof, the Company may pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fractional interest in an amount equal to such fractional interest multiplied by the Conversion Price. If more than one share of Preferred Stock shall be surrendered for conversion by the same holder at the same time, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock so surrendered.
(vi) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Preferred Stock such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock as will from time to time be sufficient to permit the conversion of all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock. Prior to the delivery of any securities which the Company shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Preferred Stock, the Company shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations which require action to be taken by the Company. All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Preferred Stock will upon delivery be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable, free of all liens and charges and not subject to any preemptive rights.
 
(i) (i) At any time on or after August 15, 2003, the Company may cause the Preferred Stock, in whole or from time to time in part, to be automatically converted into that number of shares of Common Stock per share of Preferred Stock equal to the Liquidation Preference per share of Preferred Stock divided by the then prevailing Conversion Price if the Current Market Value of the Common Stock equals or exceeds 120% of the then prevailing Conversion Price for at least 20 trading days in any consecutive 30-day trading period, including the last trading day of such 30-day period; ending on the trading day prior to the issuance of the press release announcing the mandatory conversion referred to in paragraph (i)(ii).
Mandatory Conversion.
(ii) To exercise a mandatory conversion, the Company shall issue a press release announcing such mandatory conversion prior to the opening of business on the first trading day following any date on which the conditions described in paragraph (i)(i) are met. The Company shall give notice of the mandatory conversion by mail or by publication (with subsequent prompt notice by mail) to the holders of the Preferred Stock not more than four Business Days after the date of the press release announcing the Company's intention to convert the Preferred Stock. The conversion date will be a date selected by the Company, which date shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days after the date on which the Company issues such press release.
(iii) In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation, notice of mandatory conversion shall state, as appropriate, (a) the Preferred Stock conversion date, (b) the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each share of Preferred Stock, (c) the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be converted (and, if fewer than all of the shares of Preferred Stock are to be converted the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be converted from such holder), (d) the place(s) where the certificates representing shares of Preferred Stock are to be surrendered for delivery of certificates representing shares of Common Stock and (e) that dividends on the shares to be converted will cease to accumulate on such mandatory conversion date.
(iv) The dividend payment with respect to a share of Preferred Stock called for mandatory conversion on a date during the period from the close of business on any Record Date for the payment of dividends to the close of business on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date shall be payable on such Dividend Payment Date to the record holder of such share on such Record Date if such share has been converted after such Record Date and prior to such Dividend Payment Date. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence with respect to a mandatory conversion, no payment or adjustment will be made upon conversion of shares of Preferred Stock for accumulated and unpaid dividends or for dividends with respect to the Common Stock issued upon such conversion.
 
(v) On and after the mandatory conversion date, dividends will cease to accrue on shares of Preferred Stock and all rights of holders of such shares will terminate except for the right to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof.
(vi) The Company may not authorize or make any mandatory conversion unless, prior to giving the conversion notice, all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock for the complete Dividend Periods ended prior to the date of such conversion notice shall have been paid in cash or Common Stock. In the event of partial mandatory conversions of the Preferred Stock, the shares to be convened will be determined pro rata or by lot, as determined by the Company, that the Company may convert all shares held by holders of fewer than 100 shares of Preferred Stock (or by holders that would hold fewer than 100 shares of Preferred Stock following such conversion) prior to the Company's conversion of other shares of Preferred Stock.
provided
(j) (i) The Conversion Price shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows:
Conversion Price Adjustments.
(A) . In case the Company shall at any time or from time to time after the Initial Issuance Date (a) pay a dividend in shares of Common Stock to holders of Common Stock, (b) make a distribution in shares of Common Stock to holders of Common Stock, (c) subdivide or split the outstanding shares of Common Stock, (d) combine or reclassify the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares or (e) issue by reclassification of the shares of Common Stock any shares of capital stock of the Company, then, and in each such case, the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to such event or the record date therefor, whichever is earlier, shall be adjusted so that the holder of any shares of Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Common Stock or other securities of the Company which such holder would have owned or have been entitled to receive after the occurrence of any of the events described above, had such shares of Preferred Stock been surrendered for conversion immediately prior to the occurrence of such event or the record date therefor, whichever is earlier. An adjustment made pursuant to this subparagraph (A) shall become effective at the close of business on the day upon which such corporate action becomes effective. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever any event listed above shall occur.
Stock Splits and Combinations
(B) . In case the Company shall issue to all holders of Common Stock rights or warrants expiring within 45 days entitling such holders to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price (as defined below), the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the record date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants shall be reduced by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction, the numerator of which is the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on such record date and the number of shares of Common Stock that the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such Current Market Price and the denominator of which is the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on such record date and the
Issuance of Rights or Warrants
 
number of additional shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase. For purposes of this subparagraph (B), the issuance of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase securities convertible into Common Stock shall be deemed to be the issuance of rights or warrants to purchase the Common Stock into which such securities are convertible at an aggregate offering price equal to the sum of the aggregate offering price of such securities and the minimum aggregate amount (if any) payable upon conversion of such securities into shares of Common Stock. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever any such event shall occur.
(C) . In case the Company shall distribute to all holders of Common Stock (whether by dividend or in a merger, amalgamation or consolidation or otherwise) evidences of indebtedness, shares of capital stock of any class or series, other securities, cash or assets (other than Common Stock, rights or warrants referred to in subparagraph (B) above or a dividend payable exclusively in cash and other than as a result of a Fundamental Change (as defined below)), the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the record date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution shall be reduced by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Current Market Price on such record date less the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination in good faith shall be conclusive) of the portion of such evidences of indebtedness, shares of capital stock, other securities, cash and assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock and the denominator of which is the Current Market Price. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever any such event shall occur.
Distribution of Indebtedness, Securities or Assets
In respect of a dividend or other distribution of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a "Spin-Off'), the adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this paragraph (C) shall occur at the earlier of (i) 20 trading days after the effective date of the Spin-Off and (ii) the initial public offering of securities pertaining to the subsidiary or other business unit to which the Spin-Off-relates, if that initial public offering is effected simultaneously with such Spin-Off.
(D) . In case any transaction or event (including, without limitation, any merger, consolidation, tender or exchange offer, reclassification, compulsory share exchange or liquidation) shall occur in which all or substantially all outstanding shares of Common Stock are converted into or exchanged for stock, other securities, cash or assets (each, a "Fundamental Change"), the holder of each share of Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of such Fundamental Change (if any remain outstanding after such Fundamental Change) shall have the right upon any subsequent conversion to receive (but only out of legally available funds, to the extent required by applicable law) the kind and amount of stock, other securities, cash and assets that such holder would have received if such share had been converted immediately prior to such Fundamental Change.
Fundamental Changes
(ii) Anything in this paragraph (j) to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be required to give effect to any adjustment in the Conversion Price unless and
 
until the net effect of one or more adjustments (each of which shall be carried forward until counted toward adjustment), determined as above provided, shall have resulted in a change of the Conversion Price by at least 1%, and when the cumulative net effect of more than one adjustment so determined shall be to change the Conversion Price by at least 1%, such change in the Conversion Price shall thereupon be given effect. In the event that, at any time as a result of the provisions of this paragraph (j), the holder of shares of Preferred Stock upon subsequent conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares of capital stock of the Company other than Common Stock, the number of such other shares so receivable upon conversion of shares of Preferred Stock shall thereafter be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions contained herein.
(iii) There shall be no adjustment of the Conversion Price in case of the issuance of any stock of the Company in a merger, reorganization, acquisition, reclassification, recapitalization or other similar transaction except as set forth in this paragraph (j).
(iv) In any case in which this paragraph (j) requires that an adjustment as a result of any event become effective from and after a record date, the Company may elect to defer until after the occurrence of such event (A) issuing to the holder of any shares of Preferred Stock converted after such record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion over and above the shares issuable on the basis of the conversion price in effect immediately prior to adjustment and (B) paying to such holder any amount in cash in lieu of a fractional share of Common Stock.
(v) If the Company shall take a record of the holders of its Common Stock for the purpose of entitling them to receive a dividend or other distribution, and shall thereafter and before the distribution to shareholders thereof legally abandon its plan to pay or deliver such dividend or distribution, then thereafter no adjustment in the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the right of conversion granted by this paragraph (j) or in the Conversion Price then in effect shall be required by reason of the taking of such record.
(vi) The Board of Directors of the Company shall have the power to resolve any ambiguity or correct any error in this paragraph (j), and its action in so doing shall be final and conclusive.
(k) (i) If a Change in Control occurs with respect to the Company, each holder of shares of Preferred Stock (if any shares of Preferred Stock remain outstanding thereafter) shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or any part of such holder's shares of Preferred Stock at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the Liquidation Preference of such shares, plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends on such shares to the date of purchase. The Company shall have the option to pay for such shares of Preferred Stock in shares of Common Stock valued at 95% of the Average Market Value. Within 30 days following such Change in Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each holder of shares of Preferred Stock (if any remain outstanding thereafter) describing the transaction or
Change in Control Put Right.
 
transactions that constitute such Change in Control and offering to purchase such holder's shares of Preferred Stock on the date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed.
(ii) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-l under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the purchase of Preferred Stock as a result of a Change in Control with respect to the Company. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with any of the provisions of this paragraph (k), the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall be deemed not to have breached its obligations under this paragraph (k).
(iii) On the date scheduled for payment of the shares of Preferred Stock tendered to the Company for repurchase as provided in this paragraph (k), the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (a) accept for payment all shares of Preferred Stock properly tendered, (b) deposit with the Transfer Agent an amount equal to the purchase price of the shares of Preferred Stock so tendered and (c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Transfer Agent shares of Preferred Stock so accepted together with an officers' certificate stating the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the shares of Preferred Stock being purchased by the Company. The Transfer Agent shall promptly mail or deliver to each holder of shares of Preferred Stock so tendered the applicable payment for such shares of Preferred Stock, and the Transfer Agent shall promptly countersign and mail or deliver, or cause to be transferred by book-entry, to each holder new shares of Preferred Stock equal in Liquidation Preference to any unpurchased portion of the shares of Preferred Stock surrendered, if any. The Company shall publicly announce the results of its offer on or as soon as practicable after the payment date for the purchase of shares of Preferred Stock in connection with a Change in Control of the Company.
(iv) The Company shall not be required to make an offer to purchase any shares of Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company if a third party makes that offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements described in this paragraph (k) and purchases all shares of Preferred Stock validly tendered and not withdrawn.
(v) The right of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock described in this paragraph (k) shall be subject to the obligation of the Company to:
(a) repay its debt obligations in full under its corporate credit facility; and
(b) offer to purchase and purchase all of its debt securities and outstanding shares of Senior Stock that have been tendered for purchase in connection with a Change in Control of the Company.
In addition, the right of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock described in this paragraph (k) shall be subject to the repurchase or repayment of the Company's future indebtedness and Senior Stock, which the Company shall be required to repurchase or repay in connection with a Change in Control of the Company.
 
When the Company shall have satisfied the obligations set forth above in this subparagraph (v) and, subject to the legal availability of funds for this purpose, the Company shall purchase all shares of Preferred Stock tendered for purchase by the Company upon a Change in Control of the Company pursuant to this paragraph (k).
(l) (i) Subject to the restrictions set forth herein, the Company may generally make any payments due on the Preferred Stock:
Method of Payments.
(a) in cash;
(b) by delivery of Common Stock; or
(c) through any combination of cash and Common Stock.
(ii) If the Company elects to make any such payment, or any portion thereof, in shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be valued for such purpose, in the case of any dividend payment, or portion thereof, at 95% of the Average Market Value.
(iii) The Company shall give the holders of the Preferred Stock notice as to whether each payment shall be made (a) in cash, (b) in shares of Common Stock, or (c) if such payment shall be made in a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, the portion of such payment that shall be made in cash and the portion that shall be made in shares of Common Stock, in each case ten (10) trading days prior to (a) in the case of a payment of any dividend, the Record Date for such dividend, or (b) in the case of any other payment, the date of such payment.
(iv) The Company shall make each dividend payment on the Preferred Stock in cash, except to the extent the Company shall have elected to make all or any portion of such payment in shares of Common Stock.
(v) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be delivered to the holders of the Preferred Stock, but the Company shall instead pay a cash adjustment to each holder that would otherwise be entitled to a fraction of a share of Common Stock. The amount of such cash adjustment shall be determined based on the proceeds received by the Transfer Agent from the sale of that number of Shares of Common Stock which the Company shall deliver to the Transfer Agent for such purpose, equal to the aggregate of all such fractions (rounded up to the nearest whole share). The Transfer Agent is authorized and directed to sell such shares of Common Stock at the best available prices and distribute the proceeds to the holders of such shares of Preferred Stock in proportion to their respective interests therein. The Company shall pay the expenses of the Transfer Agent with respect to such sale, including brokerage commissions. Any portion of any such payment that is declared and not paid through the delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be paid in cash.
 
(vi) Shares of Preferred Stock issued and reacquired shall, upon compliance with the applicable requirements of law, have the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series and may with any and all other authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock be designated or redesignated and issued, as part of any series of Preferred Stock.
(m) As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context otherwise requires:
Certain Definitions.
of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person shall be deemed to be control.
"Affiliate"
provided
of the Common Stock means the arithmetic average of the Current Market Value of the Common Stock for the five trading days ending on the second Business Day prior to (a) in the case of the payment of any dividend, the Record Date for such dividend and (b) in the case of any other payment, the date of such payment.
"Average Market Value"
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a United States federal holiday.
"Business Day"
means: (1) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock, (2) in the case or an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock; (3) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited); and (4) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person.
"Capital Stock"
means, with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13 (d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than a Principal or a Related Party of a Principal; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above), other than the Principals and their Related Parties, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all
"Change in Control"
 
securities that such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company (measured by voting power rather than number of shares); that transfers of Equity Interests in the Company between or among the beneficial owners of the Company's Equity Interests and/or Equity Interests in Crown Castle UK Holdings Limited, in each case as of June 26, 2000, shall not be deemed to cause a Change of Control under this clause so long as no single Person together with its Affiliates acquires a beneficial interest in more of the Voting Stock of the Company than is at the time collectively beneficially owned by the Principals and their Related Parties; (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or (v) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where: (a) the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance); or (b) the Principals and their Related Parties own a majority of such outstanding shares after such transaction.
provided
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Company who: (l) was a member of such board of directors on August 3, 1999; (2) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election; or (3) is a designee of a Principal or was nominated by a Principal.
"Continuing Directors"
means, with respect to any event set forth in paragraph (j) herein, as applicable, the average of the daily closing prices for the five consecutive trading days selected by the Board of Directors of the Company commencing not more than 20 trading days before, and ending not later than the date of such event and the date immediately preceding the record date fixed in connection with such event; that the Current Market Price of the Company's Common Stock in connection with a Spin-Off shall mean the average of the daily closing prices of the Company's Common Stock for the same five consecutive trading days in determining the Fair Market Value of the securities being distributed in such Spin-Off; that if an initial public offering of the securities being distributed in any Spin-Off is to be effected simultaneously with such Spin-Off, the Current Market Price of the Company's Common Stock shall mean the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the trading day on which the initial public offering price of such securities is determined.
"Current Market Price"
provided
provided further
of the Common Stock means the average volume-weighted daily trading price of the Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market or such other SEC recognized national securities exchange or trading system which the Company may from time to time designate upon which the greatest number of shares of the Common Stock is then listed or traded, for the trading day in question.
"Current Market Value"
 
means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, in each case, at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Company is obligated to redeem the Preferred Stock as set forth in paragraph (f); , that any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders thereof have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or a sale of assets shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Capital Stock provide that CCIC may not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with the provisions of paragraph (d).
"Disqualified Stock"
provided
however
means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
"Equity Interests"
of the securities to be distributed to the holders of the Company's Common Stock in connection with a Spin-Off shall mean the average of the daily closing prices of such securities for the five consecutive trading days selected by the Company's Board of Directors beginning on the first day of trading of such securities after the effectiveness of such Spin-Off; , , that if an initial public offering of the securities being distributed in any Spin-Off is to be effected simultaneously with such Spin-Off, the Fair Market Value of such securities shall mean the initial public offering price.
"Fair Market Value"
provided
however
means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or agency or political subdivision thereof (including any subdivision or ongoing business of any such entity or substantially all of the assets of any such entity, subdivision or business).
"Person"
means Berkshire Fund III, Limited Partnership; Berkshire Fund IV, Limited Partnership; Berkshire Investors LLC; Berkshire Partners LLC; Centenial Fund IV, L.P.; Centenial Fund V, L.P.; Centenial Entrepreneurs Fund V, L.P.; Nassau Capital Partners II, L.P.; and NAS Partners I, L.L.C., and any Related Party of the foregoing.
"Principals"
with respect to any Principal means: (1) any controlling stockholder, 80% (or more) owned Subsidiary of such Principal; or (2) any trust, corporation, partnership or other entity, the beneficiaries, stockholders, members, partners, owners or Persons beneficially holding an 80% or more controlling interest of which consist of such Principal and/or such other Persons referred to in the immediately preceding clause (1).
"Related Party"
 
is defined in paragraph (j)(i)(C).
"Spin Off"
means, with respect to any Person: (1) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof); and (2) any partnership: (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person; or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or of one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or any combination thereof).
"Subsidiary"
of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
"Voting Stock"
(n) The headings of the paragraphs of this Certificate of Designations are for convenience of reference only and shall not define, limit or affect any of the provisions hereof.
Headings.
(o) Except as may otherwise be provided for herein, all notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt of such notice or three business Days after the mailing of such notice if sent by registered mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this certificate) with postage prepaid, addressed: if to the Company, to its offices at 510 Bering Drive, Suite 600, Houston, Texas 77057, Attention: General Counsel, or to an agent of the Corporation designated as permitted by this certificate, or, if to any holder of the Preferred Stock, to such holder at the address of such holder of the Preferred Stock as listed in the stock record books of the Company (which may include the records of any Transfer Agent for the Preferred Stock); or to such other address as the Company or holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
Notice.
 

Exhibit 3.2
SECTION 1.01. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Delaware Office.
SECTION 1.02. The Corporation may have such other offices, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "") may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices.
Board
SECTION 2.01. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation (the "") shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board.
Annual Meeting.
Stockholders
SECTION 2.02. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the "") with respect to special meetings of the holders thereof, special meetings of Stockholders may be called at any time only by (i) the Secretary (the ""), the Chief Executive Officer (the "") or the President (the "") of the Corporation at the direction of the Board pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board or (ii) the Chief Executive Officer.
Special Meeting.
Preferred Stock
Secretary
Chief Executive Officer
President
SECTION 2.03. The Board may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of Stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board, the place of meeting shall be the principal executive offices of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting.
SECTION 2.04. Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each Stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by applicable law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of Stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of Stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from time to time (the "Charter") otherwise provides) any special meeting of Stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of Stockholders.
Notice of Meeting.
SECTION 2.05. Except as otherwise provided by applicable law or by the Charter, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting as a single class with shares of common stock of the Corporation (the ""), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of Stockholders; , , that (i) in the election of Directors of the Corporation (""), the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of Stockholders and (ii) when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The Chairman of the Board (the "") or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by applicable law. The Stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum and Adjournment.
Voting Stock
provided
however
Directors
Chairman
SECTION 2.06. At all meetings of Stockholders, a Stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by applicable law; that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any proxy to be used at a meeting of Stockholders must be filed with the Secretary or his or her representative at or before the time of the meeting.
Proxies.
provided
SECTION 2.07.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
(a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the Stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of Stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's
 
notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated By-laws, as amended from time to time (these ""), (B) by or at the direction of the Chairman or (C) by any Stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in Section 2.07(a)(ii) and Section 2.07(a)(iii) and who was a Stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary.
By-laws
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a Stockholder pursuant to Section 2.07(a)(i)(C), the Stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and, in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for Stockholder action. To be timely, a Stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days, or delayed by more than 90 days, from such anniversary date, notice by the Stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which Public Announcement (as defined in Section 2.07(c)(ii)) of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the Public Announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a Stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such Stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the Stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the Stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these By-laws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such Stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the Stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such Stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such Stockholder and such beneficial owner, (3) a representation that the Stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination and (4) a representation whether the Stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from Stockholders in support of
provided
however
Exchange Act
 
such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.07(a) shall be deemed satisfied by a Stockholder if the Stockholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such Stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a Director.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of Section 2.07(a)(ii) to the contrary, in the event that the number of Directors to be elected to the Board is increased and there is no Public Announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.07(a) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such Public Announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of Stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these By-laws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of Stockholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (A) by or at the direction of the Board or (B) by any Stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.07(b) and who is a Stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of Stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more Directors to the Board, any such Stockholder may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the Stockholder's notice as required by Section 2.07(a)(ii) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which Public Announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the Public Announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a Stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
(c) (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.07(a) or Section 2.07(b) shall be eligible to be elected as Directors at a meeting of Stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of Stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.07. Except as otherwise provided by
General.
 
applicable law, the Charter or these By-laws, the Chairman shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.07 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these By-laws, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.07, unless otherwise required by law, if the Stockholder (or a qualified representative of the Stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of Stockholders to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.07, to be considered a qualified representative of the Stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such Stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such Stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such Stockholder to act for such Stockholder as proxy at the meeting of Stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of Stockholders.
(ii) For purposes of these By-laws, "" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or any document delivered to all Stockholders (including any quarterly income statement).
Public Announcement
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these By-laws, a Stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.07. Nothing in these By-laws shall be deemed to affect any rights of (a) Stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect Directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Charter.
SECTION 2.08. The election of Directors submitted to Stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a plurality of the votes cast thereon. Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, rule or regulation, the Charter or these By-laws, all matters other than the election of Directors submitted to Stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon.
Procedure for Election of Directors; Voting.
The vote on any matter, including the election of Directors, shall be by written ballot. Each ballot shall be signed by the Stockholder voting, or by such Stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
 
SECTION 2.09. (a) To the extent required by applicable law, the Board by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be Directors, officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. To the extent required by applicable law, if no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of Stockholders, the Chairman shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls.
(b) The Chairman shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the Stockholders will vote at the meeting. The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of Stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the Chairman shall have the right and authority to convene the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of the Chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the Chairman, may include the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to Stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Board or the Chairman shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The Board or the Chairman shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if the Board or the Chairman should so determine, shall so declare to the meeting, and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the Chairman, meetings of Stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
SECTION 3.01. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board. In addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by these By-laws, the Board may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by applicable law or by the Charter or by these By-laws required to be exercised or done by Stockholders.
General Powers.
 
SECTION 3.02. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board. However, no decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Number, Tenure and Qualifications.
SECTION 3.03. A regular meeting of the Board shall be held without other notice than this Section 3.03 immediately after, and at the same place as, each annual meeting of Stockholders. The Board may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without notice other than such resolution. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Secretary shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
Regular Meetings.
SECTION 3.04. Special meetings of the Board shall be called at the request of (i) the Chairman and either the Chief Executive Officer or President or (ii) a majority of the Board. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board may fix the place and time of the meetings. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Secretary shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
Special Meetings.
SECTION 3.05. Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each Director at his or her business or residence not later than five days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or be communicated to each Director personally or by telephone, not later than two days before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these By-laws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the Directors are present (except as otherwise provided by applicable law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting, or as otherwise provided by applicable law.
Notice.
SECTION 3.06. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the records of the proceedings of the Board or of such committee.
Action Without Meeting.
SECTION 3.07. Members of the Board, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings.
 
SECTION 3.08. At all meetings of the Board or any committee, a majority of the Entire Board (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) or the entire committee (assuming no vacancies or unfilled newly-created committee memberships), as the case may be, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the Directors or members, as the case may be, present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Charter or these By-laws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board or any committee, a majority of the Directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting.
Quorum.
SECTION 3.09. (a) The Corporation shall have three standing committees: the nominating and corporate governance committee, the audit committee and the compensation committee. Each such standing committee shall have those powers and authority as are delegated to it from time to time pursuant to a resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the total number of Directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships (the "").
Committees.
Entire Board
(b) In addition, the Board may, by resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board, designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of one or more Directors and having such powers and authority as the Board shall designate by such resolution.
(c) Any modification to the powers and authority of any committee shall require the adoption of a resolution by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board.
(d) All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these By-laws and the resolutions adopted by the Board in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or conferred under authority of the Board. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation ("") is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Assistant Secretary
(e) Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as such is determined by resolution of the Board or the committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution. A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of the Board, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the request of the chairman of such committee or a majority of the members of such committee. Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these By-laws.
 
SECTION 3.10. (a) Each member of any committee of the Board shall hold office until such member's successor is duly elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed or disqualified. The number of Directors which shall constitute any committee shall be determined by resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board.
Committee Members.
(b) The Board may remove a Director from a committee or change the chairmanship of a committee only by resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board.
(c) The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise; that any such designation may only be amended by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board.
provided
SECTION 3.11. The Board may elect a secretary of any such committee. If the Board does not elect such a secretary, the committee shall do so. The secretary of any committee need not be a member of the committee, but shall be selected from a member of the staff of the office of the Secretary, unless otherwise provided by the Board or the committee, as applicable.
Committee Secretary.
SECTION 3.12. The Directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board and may be paid compensation as Director or chairman of any committee and for attendance at each meeting of the Board. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for attending committee meetings.
Compensation.
SECTION 3.13. The Chairman shall be a member of the Board. The Chairman, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board and at all meetings of Stockholders.
Chairman.
SECTION 4.01. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board and shall consist of: a Chief Executive Officer; a President; a Chief Financial Officer; one or more Executive Vice Presidents; one or more Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; a Controller; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board may be necessary or desirable. All officers chosen by the Board shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article IV. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board or any committee thereof. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by applicable law, the Charter or these By-laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be Stockholders or Directors.
General.
 
SECTION 4.02. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board at the regular meeting of the Board held after each annual meeting of Stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation, removal or disqualification.
Election and Term of Office.
SECTION 4.03. The Chief Executive Officer shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board or these By-laws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 4.04. The President shall be an officer of the Corporation. The President shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board or these By-laws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
President.
SECTION 4.05. The Chief Financial Officer (the "") of the Corporation shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board or these By-laws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the President.
Chief Financial Officer.
Chief Financial Officer
SECTION 4.06. The Vice President (the ""), or Vice Presidents, of the Corporation, if any shall be appointed, shall have such duties as the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or these By-laws may from time to time prescribe.
Vice President.
Vice President
SECTION 4.07. The Treasurer (the "") of the Corporation shall have the custody of the Corporation's funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. He shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements.
Treasurer.
Treasurer
SECTION 4.08. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of Stockholders and Directors and all other notices required by applicable law or by these By-laws, and in case of his or her absence or refusal or neglect
Secretary.
 
so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Directors or Stockholders, upon whose request the meeting is called as provided in these By-laws. He shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Board, any committees thereof and Stockholders in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. He shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and attest the same.
SECTION 4.09. Assistant Treasurers (the "") and Assistant Secretaries of the Corporation, if any shall be appointed, shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them, respectively, by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries.
Assistant Treasurers
SECTION 4.10. A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, disqualification or removal may be filled only by the Board for the unexpired portion of the term of any such office.
Vacancies.
SECTION 5.01. (a) The interest of each Stockholder shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; that the Board may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Except as otherwise expressly provided by applicable law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated stock, if any, and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
Stock Certificates and Transfers.
provided
(b) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
(c) The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by
 
his or her attorney, upon surrender for cancelation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or, unless otherwise provided by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each Stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
SECTION 5.02. No certificate for shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board or its designee may in its or his or her discretion require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
SECTION 6.01. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board.
Fiscal Year.
SECTION 6.02. The Board may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by applicable law and the Charter.
Dividends.
SECTION 6.03. The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board.
Seal.
SECTION 6.04. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any Stockholder or Director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, or a waiver thereof by electronic transmission by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such a meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning
Waiver of Notice.
 
of such a meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of Stockholders or any meeting of the Board or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
SECTION 6.05. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the audit committee, and it shall be the duty of the audit committee to cause such audit to be made annually.
Audits.
SECTION 6.06. Any Director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation.
Resignations.
SECTION 6.07. (a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a ""), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation or, while a Director or officer of the Corporation, a Director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; , , that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such Proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board or is a Proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Section 6.07. The Corporation shall pay to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law the expenses incurred by any person described in the first sentence of this Section 6.07(a) in defending any such Proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon, to the extent such an undertaking is required by applicable law, receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Section 6.07 or otherwise.
Indemnification and Insurance.
Proceeding
provided
however
(b) The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a Proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Section 6.07 shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Charter, other provision of these By-laws, vote of Stockholders or Disinterested Directors (as defined in Section 6.07(f)(1)) or otherwise. No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, amendment, adoption or modification.
 
(c) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a Director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(d) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any Proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a Director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a Director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Section 6.07 with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of Directors and officers of the Corporation.
(e) If any provision or provisions of this Section 6.07 shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Section 6.07 (including each portion of any paragraph or clause of this Section 6.07 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Section 6.07 (including each such portion of any paragraph of this Section 6.07 containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(f) For purposes of these By-laws (including this Section 6.07):
(1) "" means a Director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
Disinterested Director
(2) "" means a corporation, a majority of the capital stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation, other than Directors' qualifying shares, if any.
Subsidiary
(g) Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Section 6.07 shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
SECTION 7.01. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, the Charter or these By-laws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. Subject to the control and direction of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Vice-President and any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board, such officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Contracts.
SECTION 7.02. Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies.
SECTION 8.01. These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated By-laws may be adopted by the Stockholders or by the Board at any meeting thereof; , , that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated By-laws is contained in the notice of such meeting of Stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than 24 hours prior to the meeting. Unless a higher percentage is required by the Charter as to
Amendments.
provided
however
 
any matter which is the subject of these By-laws, all such amendments must be approved by either the holders of 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock or by the Board; , notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may alter, amend or repeal, or adopt new By-laws in conflict with, (i) any provision of these By-laws which requires a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board for action to be taken thereunder and (ii) this proviso to this Section 8.01 of these By-laws only by a resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Entire Board.
provided that
 

Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of the (the "Plan") is to provide a means through which ., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Affiliates may attract able persons to enter the employ or to serve as Directors or Consultants of the Company and its Affiliates and to provide a means whereby those individuals upon whom the responsibilities of the successful administration and management of the Company and its Affiliates rest, and whose present and potential contributions to the Company and its Affiliates are of importance, can acquire and maintain stock ownership, thereby strengthening their concern for the welfare of the Company and its Affiliates. A further purpose of the Plan is to provide such individuals with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to enhance the profitable growth of the Company and its Affiliates. Accordingly, the Plan provides for granting Incentive Stock Options, options that do not constitute Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, Performance Awards, and Phantom Stock Awards, or any combination of the foregoing, as is best suited to the circumstances of the particular employee, Consultant, or Director as provided herein.
CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CORP. 2004 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CORP
The following definitions shall be applicable throughout the Plan unless specifically modified by any paragraph:
(a) means the number of shares of Common Stock determined from time to time by subtracting from 28,000,000 the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock subject to 1995 Stock Options.
"Additional Shares"
(b) means any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or partnership, association, trust or other organization which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company. For purposes of the preceding sentence, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any entity or organization, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power (i) to vote more than 50% of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of the controlled entity or organization, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the controlled entity or organization, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise.
"Affiliate"
(c) means, individually or collectively, any Option, Restricted Stock Award, Performance Award or Phantom Stock Award.
"Award"
(d) means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
(e) means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference in the Plan to any section of the Code shall be deemed to include any amendments or successor provisions to such section and any regulations under such section.
"Code"
(f) means a committee of the Board that is selected by the Board as provided in Paragraph IV(a).
"Committee"
(g) means the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company, or any security into which such Common Stock may be changed by reason of any transaction or event of the type described in Paragraph XII.
"Common Stock"
(h) means Crown Castle International Corp., a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
(i) means any person who is not an employee or a Director and who is providing advisory or consulting services to the Company or any Affiliate.
"Consultant"
(j) shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph XII(c) of the Plan.
"Corporate Change"
(k) means an individual elected to the Board by the stockholders of the Company or by the Board under applicable corporate law who is serving on the Board on the date the Plan is adopted by the Board or is elected to the Board after such date.
"Director"
(l) An means any person (including a Director) in an employment relationship with the Company or any Affiliate.
"employee"
(m) means, as of any specified date, the mean of the high and low sales prices of the Common Stock reported by (i) the exchange or market upon which the Common Stock is publicly traded including the National Market System of NASDAQ or New York Stock Exchange, as applicable, on that date or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on a national stock exchange, reported on the stock exchange composite tape on that date (or such other reporting service approved by the Committee); or, in either case, if no prices are reported on that date, on the last preceding date on which such prices of the Common Stock are so reported. If the Common Stock is traded over the counter at the time a determination of its fair market value is required to be made hereunder, its fair market value shall be deemed to be equal to the average between the reported high and low or closing bid and asked prices of Common Stock on the most recent date on which Common Stock was publicly traded. In the event Common Stock is not publicly traded at the time a determination of its value is required to be made hereunder, the determination of its fair market value shall be made by the Committee in such manner as it deems appropriate.
"Fair Market Value"
(n) means, with respect to a Participant, the Participant's spouse, children or grandchildren (including adopted children, stepchildren and grandchildren).
"Immediate Family"
(o) means an incentive stock option within the meaning of section 422 of the Code
"Incentive Stock Option"
 
(p) means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"1934 Act"
(q) means stock options granted pursuant to the 1995 Plan that have been exercised or are outstanding.
"1995 Stock Options"
(r) means the 1995 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended.
"1995 Plan"
(s) means an Award granted under Paragraph VII of the Plan and includes both Incentive Stock Options to purchase Common Stock and Options that do not constitute Incentive Stock Options to purchase Common Stock.
"Option"
(t) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant with respect to an Option.
"Option Agreement"
(u) means an employee, Consultant, or Director who has been granted an Award.
"Participant"
(v) means an Award granted under Paragraph IX of the Plan.
"Performance Award"
(w) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant with respect to a Performance Award.
"Performance Award Agreement"
(x) means an Award granted under Paragraph X of the Plan.
"Phantom Stock Award"
(y) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant with respect to a Phantom Stock Award.
"Phantom Stock Award Agreement"
(z) means the Crown Castle International Corp. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
(aa) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant with respect to a Restricted Stock Award.
"Restricted Stock Agreement"
(bb) means an Award granted under Paragraph VIII of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock Award"
(cc) means SEC Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act, as such may be amended from time to time, and any successor rule, regulation or statute fulfilling the same or a similar function.
"Rule 16b-3"
(dd) shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph VII(d) of the Plan.
"Stock Appreciation Right"
The Plan shall become effective upon the date of its adoption by the Board, provided the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the Company within 12 months thereafter. Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, no Option shall be exercisable and no Performance
 
Award, Phantom Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award shall vest or become satisfiable prior to such stockholder approval. No further Awards may be granted under the Plan after 10 years from the date the Plan is adopted by the Board. The Plan shall remain in effect until all Options granted under the Plan have been exercised or expired, all Restricted Stock Awards granted under the Plan have vested or been forfeited, and all Performance Awards and Phantom Stock Awards have been satisfied or expired.
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by a committee of, and appointed by, the Board that shall be comprised solely of two or more outside Directors (within the meaning of the term "outside directors" as used in section 162(m) of the Code and applicable interpretive authority thereunder and within the meaning of the term "Non-Employee Director" as defined in Rule 16b-3).
Composition of Committee
(b) . Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority, in its discretion, to determine which employees, Consultants or Directors shall receive an Award, the time or times when such Award shall be made, the type of Award that shall be made, the number of shares to be subject to each Option or Restricted Stock Award, the number of shares subject to or the value of each Performance Award, and the value of each Phantom Stock Award. In making such determinations, the Committee shall take into account the nature of the services rendered by the respective employees, Consultants, or Directors, their present and potential contribution to the Company's success and such other factors as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem relevant.
Powers
(c) . The Committee shall have such additional powers as are delegated to it by the other provisions of the Plan. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, this shall include the power to construe the Plan and the respective agreements executed hereunder, to prescribe rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to determine the terms, restrictions and provisions of the agreement relating to each Award, including such terms, restrictions and provisions as shall be requisite in the judgment of the Committee to cause designated Options to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for administering the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any agreement relating to an Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry it into effect. The determinations of the Committee on the matters referred to in this Paragraph IV shall be conclusive.
Additional Powers
(a) . Subject to adjustment in the same manner as provided in Paragraph XII with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to Options then outstanding, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares plus the Additional Shares. The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock added to the Plan as Additional Shares shall not exceed 10,000,000 shares. Shares shall be deemed to have been issued under the Plan only (i) to the
Shares Subject to the Plan and Award Limits
 
extent actually issued and delivered pursuant to an Award or (ii) to the extent an Award denominated in shares of Common Stock is settled in cash. To the extent that an Award lapses or the rights of its holder terminate, any shares of Common Stock subject to such Award shall again be available for the grant of an Award under the Plan. Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Options, Restricted Stock Awards and Performance Awards denominated in shares of Common Stock granted to any one individual during the term of the Plan may not exceed the maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan (subject to adjustment in the same manner as provided in Paragraph XII with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to Options then outstanding), and the maximum amount of compensation that may be paid under all Performance Awards denominated in cash (including the Fair Market Value of any shares of Common Stock paid in satisfaction of such Performance Awards) granted to any one individual during any calendar year may not exceed $1,000,000, and any payment due with respect to a Performance Award shall be paid no later than 10 years after the date of grant of such Performance Award. The limitations set forth in the preceding sentence shall be applied in a manner that will permit compensation generated under the Plan to constitute "performance-based" compensation for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code, including, without limitation, counting against such maximum number of shares, to the extent required under section 162(m) of the Code and applicable interpretive authority thereunder, any shares subject to Options that are canceled or repriced.
(b) . The Committee may from time to time grant Awards to one or more employees, Consultants, or Directors determined by it to be eligible for participation in the Plan in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
Grant of Awards
(c) . Subject to the limitations set forth in Paragraph V(a), the stock to be offered pursuant to the grant of an Award may be authorized but unissued Common Stock or Common Stock previously issued and outstanding and reacquired by the Company. Any of such shares which remain unissued and which are not subject to outstanding Awards at the termination of the Plan shall cease to be subject to the Plan but, until termination of the Plan, the Company shall at all times make available a sufficient number of shares to meet the requirements of the Plan.
Stock Offered
Awards may be granted only to persons who, at the time of grant, are employees, Consultants, or Directors. An Award may be granted on more than one occasion to the same person, and, subject to the limitations set forth in the Plan, such Award may include an Incentive Stock Option, an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option, a Restricted Stock Award, a Performance Award, a Phantom Stock Award, or any combination thereof.
(a) . The term of each Option shall be as specified by the Committee at the date of grant, but shall not be exercisable more than 10 years after the date of grant.
Option Period
 
(b) . An Option shall be exercisable in whole or in such installments and at such times as determined by the Committee.
Limitations on Exercise of Option
(c) . An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to an individual who is employed by the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation (as defined in section 424 of the Code) at the time the Option is granted. To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time the respective Incentive Stock Option is granted) of Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an individual during any calendar year under all incentive stock option plans of the Company and its parent and subsidiary corporations exceeds $100,000, such Incentive Stock Options shall be treated as Options which do not constitute Incentive Stock Options. The Committee shall determine, in accordance with applicable provisions of the Code, Treasury Regulations and other administrative pronouncements, which of a Participant's Incentive Stock Options will not constitute Incentive Stock Options because of such limitation and shall notify the Participant of such determination as soon as practicable after such determination. No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to an individual if, at the time the Option is granted, such individual owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of its parent or subsidiary corporation, within the meaning of section 422(b)(6) of the Code, unless (i) at the time such Option is granted the option price is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock subject to the Option and (ii) such Option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date of grant. An Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Special Limitations on Incentive Stock Options
(d) . Each Option shall be evidenced by an Option Agreement in such form and containing such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee from time to time shall approve, including, without limitation, provisions to qualify an Incentive Stock Option under section 422 of the Code. Each Option Agreement shall specify the effect of termination of (i) employment, (ii) the consulting or advisory relationship, or (iii) membership on the Board, as applicable, on the exercisability of the Option. An Option Agreement may provide for the payment of the option price, in whole or in part, by the delivery of a number of shares of Common Stock (plus cash if necessary) having a Fair Market Value equal to such option price. Moreover, an Option Agreement may provide for a "cashless exercise" of the Option by establishing procedures satisfactory to the Committee with respect thereto. Further, an Option Agreement may provide for the surrender of the right to purchase shares under the Option in return for a payment in cash or shares of Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock equal in value to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares with respect to which the right to purchase is surrendered over the option price therefor ("Stock Appreciation Rights"), on such terms and conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion may prescribe. In the case of any such Stock Appreciation Right that is granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option, such right shall be exercisable only when the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock exceeds the price specified therefor in the Option or the portion thereof to be surrendered. The terms and conditions of the respective Option Agreements need not be identical. Subject to the consent of the Participant, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend an outstanding Option Agreement from time to time in any manner
Option Agreement
 
that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, an amendment that accelerates the time at which the Option, or a portion thereof, may be exercisable).
(e) . Except as provided in Paragraph XII, the Committee may not, without approval of the stockholders of the Company, amend any outstanding Option Agreement to lower the option price (or cancel and replace any outstanding Option Agreement with Option Agreements having a lower option price).
Restrictions on Repricing of Options
(f) . The price at which a share of Common Stock may be purchased upon exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Committee but, subject to adjustment as provided in Paragraph XII, (i) in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, such purchase price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Option is granted, and (ii) in the case of an Option that does not constitute an Incentive Stock Option, such purchase price may be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Option is granted. The Option or portion thereof may be exercised by delivery of an irrevocable notice of exercise to the Company, as specified by the Committee. The purchase price of the Option or portion thereof shall be paid in full in the manner prescribed by the Committee. Separate stock certificates shall be issued by the Company for those shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option and for those shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of any Option that does not constitute an Incentive Stock Option.
Option Price and Payment
(g) . The Participant shall be entitled to all the privileges and rights of a stockholder only with respect to such shares of Common Stock as have been purchased under the Option and for which certificates of stock have been registered in the Participant's name.
Stockholder Rights and Privileges
(h) . Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted under the Plan from time to time in substitution for options held by individuals providing services to corporations or other entities who become employees, Consultants, or Directors as a result of a merger or consolidation or other business transaction with the Company or any Affiliate.
Options and Rights in Substitution for Options Granted by Other Employers
(a) . Shares of Common Stock that are the subject of a Restricted Stock Award shall be subject to restrictions on disposition by the Participant and an obligation of the Participant to forfeit and surrender the shares to the Company under certain circumstances (the "Forfeiture Restrictions"). The Forfeiture Restrictions shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and the Committee may provide that the Forfeiture Restrictions shall lapse upon (i) the attainment of one or more performance measures established by the Committee that are based on (1) the price of a share of Common Stock, (2) the Company's earnings per share, (3) the Company's market share, (4) the market share of a business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (5) the Company's sales, (6) the sales of a business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (7) the net income (before or after taxes) of the Company or any business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (8) the cash flow return on investment of the Company or any
Forfeiture Restrictions To Be Established by the Committee
 
business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (9) the earnings before or after interest, taxes, depreciation, and/or amortization of the Company or any business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (10) the economic value added, (11) the return on stockholders' equity achieved by the Company, or (12) the total stockholders' return achieved by the Company, (ii) the Participant's continued employment with the Company or continued service as a Consultant or Director for a specified period of time, (iii) the occurrence of any event or the satisfaction of any other condition specified by the Committee in its sole discretion, or (iv) a combination of any of the foregoing. The performance measures described in clause (i) of the preceding sentence may be subject to adjustment for specified significant extraordinary items or events, and may be absolute, relative to one or more other companies, or relative to one or more indexes, and may be contingent upon future performance of the Company or any Affiliate, division, or department thereof. Each Restricted Stock Award may have different Forfeiture Restrictions, in the discretion of the Committee.
(b) . Common Stock awarded pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award shall be represented by (i) a stock certificate registered in the name of the Participant or (ii) any other reasonable alternative form for evidencing or representing the issuance of Common Stock. Unless provided otherwise in a Restricted Stock Agreement, the Participant shall have the right to receive dividends with respect to Common Stock subject to a Restricted Stock Award, to vote Common Stock subject thereto and to enjoy all other stockholder rights, except that (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to delivery of the stock certificate until the Forfeiture Restrictions have expired, (ii) the Company shall retain custody of the stock until the Forfeiture Restrictions have expired, (iii) the Participant may not sell, transfer, pledge, exchange, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the stock until the Forfeiture Restrictions have expired, and (iv) a breach of the terms and conditions established by the Committee pursuant to the Restricted Stock Agreement shall cause a forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Award. At the time of such Award, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, prescribe additional terms, conditions or restrictions relating to Restricted Stock Awards, including, but not limited to, rules pertaining to the termination of employment or service as a Consultant or Director (by retirement, disability, death or otherwise) of a Participant prior to expiration of the Forfeitures Restrictions. Such additional terms, conditions or restrictions shall be set forth in a Restricted Stock Agreement made in conjunction with the Award.
Other Terms and Conditions
(c) . The Committee shall determine the amount and form of any payment for Common Stock received pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, provided that in the absence of such a determination, a Participant shall not be required to make any payment for Common Stock received pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, except to the extent otherwise required by law.
Payment for Restricted Stock
(d) . The Committee may, in its discretion and as of a date determined by the Committee, fully vest any or all Common Stock awarded to a Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award and, upon such vesting, all restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock Award shall terminate as of such date. Any action by the Committee pursuant to this Subparagraph may vary among individual Participants and may vary among the Restricted Stock Awards held by any individual Participant. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Subparagraph, the Committee may not take any action described in this Subparagraph with respect to a Restricted Stock Award that
Committee's Discretion to Accelerate Vesting of Restricted Stock Awards
 
has been granted to a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation section 1.162-27(c)(2)) if such Award has been designed to meet the exception for performance-based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code.
(e) . At the time any Award is made under this Paragraph VIII, the Company and the Participant shall enter into a Restricted Stock Agreement setting forth each of the matters contemplated hereby and such other matters as the Committee may determine to be appropriate. The terms and provisions of the respective Restricted Stock Agreements need not be identical. Subject to the consent of the Participant and the restriction set forth in the last sentence of Subparagraph (d) above, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend an outstanding Restricted Stock Agreement from time to time in any manner that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Agreements
(a) . The Committee shall establish, with respect to and at the time of each Performance Award, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to, or the maximum value of, the Performance Award and the performance period over which the performance applicable to the Performance Award shall be measured.
Performance Period
(b) . A Performance Award shall be awarded to a Participant contingent upon future performance of the Company or any Affiliate, division, or department thereof during the performance period. The Committee shall establish the performance measures applicable to such performance either (i) prior to the beginning of the performance period or (ii) within 90 days after the beginning of the performance period if the outcome of the performance targets is substantially uncertain at the time such targets are established, but not later than the date that 25% of the performance period has elapsed; provided such measures may be made subject to adjustment for specified significant extraordinary items or events. The performance measures may be absolute, relative to one or more other companies, or relative to one or more indexes. The performance measures established by the Committee may be based upon (1) the price of a share of Common Stock, (2) the Company's earnings per share, (3) the Company's market share, (4) the market share of a business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (5) the Company's sales, (6) the sales of a business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (7) the net income (before or after taxes) of the Company or any business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (8) the cash flow return on investment of the Company or any business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (9) the earnings before or after interest, taxes, depreciation, and/or amortization of the Company or any business unit of the Company designated by the Committee, (10) the economic value added, (11) the return on stockholders' equity achieved by the Company, (12) the total stockholders' return achieved by the Company, or (13) a combination of any of the foregoing. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide for an adjustable Performance Award value based upon the level of achievement of performance measures.
Performance Measures
(c) . In determining the value of Performance Awards, the Committee shall take into account a Participant's responsibility level, performance, potential, other Awards, and such other considerations as it deems appropriate. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide for a reduction in the value of a Participant's Performance Award during the performance period.
Awards Criteria
 
(d) . Following the end of the performance period, the holder of a Performance Award shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount not exceeding the number of shares of Common Stock subject to, or the maximum value of, the Performance Award, based on the achievement of the performance measures for such performance period, as determined and certified in writing by the Committee. Payment of a Performance Award may be made in cash, Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee. Payment shall be made in a lump sum or in installments as prescribed by the Committee. If a Performance Award covering shares of Common Stock is to be paid in cash, such payment shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the payment date.
Payment
(e) . A Performance Award shall terminate if the Participant does not remain continuously in the employ of the Company and its Affiliates or does not continue to perform services as a Consultant or a Director for the Company and its Affiliates at all times during the applicable performance period, except as may be determined by the Committee.
Termination of Award
(f) . At the time any Award is made under this Paragraph IX, the Company and the Participant shall enter into a Performance Award Agreement setting forth each of the matters contemplated hereby, and such additional matters as the Committee may determine to be appropriate. The terms and provisions of the respective Performance Award Agreements need not be identical.
Performance Award Agreements
(a) . Phantom Stock Awards are rights to receive the Fair Market Value of shares of Common Stock, or rights to receive an amount equal to any appreciation or increase in the Fair Market Value of Common Stock over a specified period of time, which vest over a period of time as established by the Committee, without satisfaction of any performance criteria or objectives. The Committee may, in its discretion, require payment or other conditions of the Participant respecting any Phantom Stock Award.
Phantom Stock Awards
(b) . The Committee shall establish, with respect to and at the time of each Phantom Stock Award, a period over which the Award shall vest with respect to the Participant.
Award Period
(c) . In determining the value of Phantom Stock Awards, the Committee shall take into account a Participant's responsibility level, performance, potential, other Awards, and such other considerations as it deems appropriate.
Awards Criteria
(d) . Following the end of the vesting period for a Phantom Stock Award (or at such other time as the applicable Phantom Stock Award Agreement may provide), the holder of a Phantom Stock Award shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount, not exceeding the maximum value of the Phantom Stock Award, based on the then vested value of the Award. Payment of a Phantom Stock Award may be made in cash, Common Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Payment shall be made in a lump sum or
Payment
 
in installments as prescribed by the Committee. Any payment to be made in cash shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the payment date. Cash dividend equivalents may be paid during or after the vesting period with respect to a Phantom Stock Award, as determined by the Committee.
(e) . A Phantom Stock Award shall terminate if the Participant does not remain continuously in the employ of the Company and its Affiliates or does not continue to perform services as a Consultant or a Director for the Company and its Affiliates at all times during the applicable vesting period, except as may be otherwise determined by the Committee.
Termination of Award
(f) . At the time any Award is made under this Paragraph X, the Company and the Participant shall enter into a Phantom Stock Award Agreement setting forth each of the matters contemplated hereby, and such additional matters as the Committee may determine to be appropriate. The terms and provisions of the respective Phantom Stock Award Agreements need not be identical.
Phantom Stock Award Agreements
(a) . Stock Awards are rights to receive shares of Common Stock, which vest immediately, without satisfaction of any performance criteria or objectives. The Committee may, in its discretion, require payment, partial payment or other conditions of the Participant respecting any Stock Award.
Stock Awards
(b) . In determining the value of Stock Awards, the Committee may take into account a Participant's responsibility level, performance, potential, other Awards, and such other considerations as it deems appropriate.
Awards Criteria
(c) . A Participant who receives a Stock Award shall be entitled to receive immediate payment of such Award in Common Stock.
Payment
(a) . The existence of the Plan and the Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's or any Affiliate's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any Affiliate, any issue of debt or equity securities ahead of or affecting Common Stock or the rights thereof, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any Affiliate or any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding.
No Effect on Right or Power
(b) . The shares with respect to which Awards may be granted are shares of Common Stock as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the expiration of an Award theretofore granted, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares of Common Stock or the payment of a stock dividend on Common Stock without receipt of consideration by the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which such Award may thereafter be exercised or
Subdivision or Consolidation of Shares; Stock Dividends
 
satisfied, as applicable (i) in the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares shall be proportionately increased, and the purchase price per share shall be proportionately reduced, and (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding shares shall be proportionately reduced, and the purchase price per share shall be proportionately increased. Any fractional share resulting from such adjustment shall be rounded up to the next whole share.
(c) . If the Company recapitalizes, reclassifies its capital stock, or otherwise changes its capital structure (a "recapitalization"), the number and class of shares of Common Stock covered by an Award theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Award shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of stock and securities to which the Participant would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the recapitalization if, immediately prior to the recapitalization, the Participant had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Common Stock then covered by such Award. If (i) the Company shall not be the surviving entity in any merger or consolidation (or survives only as a subsidiary of an entity), (ii) the Company sells, leases or exchanges or agrees to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of its assets to any other person or entity, (iii) the Company is to be dissolved and liquidated, (iv) any person or entity, including a "group" as contemplated by Section 13(d)(3) of the 1934 Act, acquires or gains ownership or control (including, without limitation, power to vote) of more than 50% of the outstanding shares of the Company's voting stock (based upon voting power), or (v) as a result of or in connection with a contested election of Directors, the persons who were Directors of the Company before such election shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board (each such event is referred to herein as a "Corporate Change"), no later than (x) 10 days after the approval by the stockholders of the Company of such merger, consolidation, reorganization, sale, lease or exchange of assets or dissolution or such election of Directors or (y) 30 days after a Corporate Change of the type described in clause (iv), the Committee, acting in its sole discretion without the consent or approval of any Participant (subject to any restrictions or limitations in an agreement with a Participant), shall effect one or more of the following alternatives, which alternatives may vary among individual Participants and which may vary among Options held by any individual Participant: (1) accelerate the time at which Options then outstanding may be exercised so that such Options may be exercised in full for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Corporate Change) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all unexercised Options and all rights of Participants thereunder shall terminate, (2) require the mandatory surrender to the Company by selected Participants of some or all of the outstanding Options held by such Participants (irrespective of whether such Options are then exercisable under the provisions of the Plan) as of a date, before or after such Corporate Change, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Options and the Company shall pay (or cause to be paid) to each Participant an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the amount calculated in Subparagraph (d) below (the "Change of Control Value") of the shares subject to such Option over the exercise price(s) under such Options for such shares, or (3) make such adjustments to Options then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Corporate Change (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole discretion that no adjustment is necessary to Options then outstanding), including, without limitation, adjusting an Option to provide that the number and class of shares of Common Stock covered by such Option shall be adjusted so that such Option shall thereafter cover securities of the surviving or acquiring corporation or other property (including, without limitation, cash) as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Recapitalizations and Corporate Changes
 
(d) . For the purposes of clause (2) in Subparagraph (c) above, the "Change of Control Value" shall equal the amount determined in clause (i), (ii) or (iii), whichever is applicable, as follows: (i) the per share price offered to stockholders of the Company in any such merger, consolidation, sale of assets or dissolution transaction, (ii) the price per share offered to stockholders of the Company in any tender offer or exchange offer whereby a Corporate Change takes place, or (iii) if such Corporate Change occurs other than pursuant to a tender or exchange offer, the fair market value per share of the shares into which such Options being surrendered are exercisable, as determined by the Committee as of the date determined by the Committee to be the date of cancellation and surrender of such Options. In the event that the consideration offered to stockholders of the Company in any transaction described in this Subparagraph (d) or Subparagraph (c) above consists of anything other than cash, the Committee shall determine the fair cash equivalent of the portion of the consideration offered which is other than cash.
Change of Control Value
(e) . In the event of changes in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of recapitalizations, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations, combinations, split-ups, split-offs, spin-offs, exchanges or other relevant changes in capitalization or distributions to the holders of Common Stock occurring after the date of the grant of any Award and not otherwise provided for by this Paragraph XII, such Award and any agreement evidencing such Award shall be subject to adjustment by the Committee at its sole discretion as to the number and price of shares of Common Stock or other consideration subject to such Award. In the event of any such change in the outstanding Common Stock or distribution to the holders of Common Stock, the aggregate number of shares available under the Plan and the maximum number of shares that may be subject to Awards granted to any one individual may be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, upon the occurrence of a Corporate Change, the Committee, acting in its sole discretion without the consent or approval of any Participant, may require the mandatory surrender to the Company by selected Participants of some or all of the outstanding Performance Awards and Phantom Stock Awards as of a date, before or after such Corporate Change, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Performance Awards and Phantom Stock Awards and the Company shall pay (or cause to be paid) to each Participant an amount of cash equal to the maximum value of such Performance Award or Phantom Stock Award which, in the event the applicable performance or vesting period set forth in such Performance Award or Phantom Stock Award has not been completed, shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days during the period beginning on the first day of the applicable performance or vesting period and ending on the date of the surrender, and the denominator of which is the aggregate number of days in the applicable performance or vesting period.
Other Changes in the Common Stock
(f) . Any adjustment provided for in the above Subparagraphs shall be subject to any required stockholder action.
Stockholder Action
(g) . Except as hereinbefore expressly provided, the issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash, property, labor or services, upon direct sale, upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, and in any case whether or not
No Adjustments unless Otherwise Provided
 
for fair value, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards theretofore granted or the purchase price per share, if applicable.
The Board in its discretion may terminate the Plan at any time with respect to any shares of Common Stock for which Awards have not theretofore been granted. The Board shall have the right to alter or amend the Plan or any part thereof from time to time; provided that no change in the Plan may be made that would impair the rights of a Participant with respect to an Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant, and provided, further, that the Board may not, without approval of the stockholders of the Company, (a) amend the Plan to increase the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the Plan or change the class of individuals eligible to receive Awards under the Plan, or (b) amend or delete Paragraph VII(e).
(a) . Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any action of the Board or of the Committee shall be deemed to give any individual any right to be granted an Option, a right to a Restricted Stock Award, a right to a Performance Award or a right to a Phantom Stock Award, or any other rights hereunder except as may be evidenced by an Award agreement duly executed on behalf of the Company, and then only to the extent and on the terms and conditions expressly set forth therein. The Plan shall be unfunded. The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or to make any other segregation of funds or assets to assure the performance of its obligations under any Award.
No Right To An Award
(b) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall (i) confer upon any employee or Consultant any right with respect to continuation of employment or of a consulting or advisory relationship with the Company or any Affiliate or (ii) interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate his or her employment or consulting or advisory relationship at any time. Nothing contained in the Plan shall confer upon any Director any right with respect to continuation of membership on the Board.
No Employment/Membership Rights Conferred
(c) . The Company shall not be obligated to issue any Common Stock pursuant to any Award granted under the Plan at any time when the shares covered by such Award have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and such other state and federal laws, rules and regulations as the Company or the Committee deems applicable and, in the opinion of legal counsel for the Company, there is no exemption from the registration requirements of such laws, rules and regulations available for the issuance and sale of such shares. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be delivered, nor shall any cash in lieu of fractional shares be paid. The Company shall have the right to deduct in connection with all Awards any taxes required by law to be withheld and to require any payments required to enable it to satisfy its withholding obligations.
Other Laws; Withholding
 
(d) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall be construed to prevent the Company or any Affiliate from taking any action which is deemed by the Company or such Affiliate to be appropriate or in its best interest, whether or not such action would have an adverse effect on the Plan or any Award made under the Plan. No Participant, beneficiary or other person shall have any claim against the Company or any Affiliate as a result of any such action.
No Restriction on Corporate Action
(e) . An Award (other than an Incentive Stock Option, which shall be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in Paragraph VII(c)) shall not be transferable otherwise than (i) by will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or the rules thereunder, (iii) with respect to Awards of Options which do not constitute Incentive Stock Options, if such transfer is permitted in the sole discretion of the Committee, by transfer by a Participant to a member of the Participant's Immediate Family, to a trust solely for the benefit of the Participant and the Participant's Immediate Family, or to a partnership or limited liability company whose only partners or shareholders are the Participant and members of the Participant's Immediately Family, or (iv) with the consent of the Committee.
Restrictions on Transfer
(f) . The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
 


