FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20070228131627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
(b)
Departure of Officer.
On February 27, 2007, James D. Cordes, Senior Vice President - Corporate Development & Strategy of Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company"), tendered his resignation, effective as of March 9, 2007, in order to pursue other opportunities.  Mr. Cordes' will receive payments and benefits pursuant to his severance agreement.  A form of the severance agreement is included as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 2, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
(e)
2007 EMT Annual Incentive Plan
. On February 22, 2007, the Board of Directors (Board) of the Company, upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the Crown Castle 2007 EMT Annual Incentive Plan (2007 Incentive Plan) for the Companys executive management team (EMT), including the Companys executive officers. Actions taken with respect to John P. Kelly, the Companys Chief Executive Officer (CEO), were approved by the independent directors of the Board. The 2007 Incentive Plan is intended to provide incentives to members of the Companys EMT in the form of cash bonus payments for achieving certain performance goals established under the 2007 Incentive Plan. Under the 2007 Incentive Plan, each eligible participant has an assigned target bonus level, expressed as a percent of base salary. Depending on the achievement of specified levels of corporate and business unit financial performance goals and individual performance goals, each eligible participant may earn a multiple of the target bonus. The Boards approval of the 2007 Incentive Plan does not create a guarantee of an incentive award to any eligible participant, and the Compensation Committee retains discretion to discontinue or amend the 2007 Incentive Plan at any time. A copy of the 2007 Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1.
Executive Officer Compensation
. On February 22, 2007, the Board, upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the following base salaries and restricted stock awards (RSAs) with respect to the following executive officers of the Company (actions taken with respect to the CEO were approved by the independent directors of the Board):
The terms of the Performance RSAs shown in the table above provide that if the Companys common stock (Common Stock) closes at or above per share prices equal to $39.68, $45.63 or $52.47 for any 20 consecutive trading days which include dates on or before February 22, 2011 (the fourth anniversary of the date of grant), 33 1/3% of the Performance RSAs performance vests (i.e., the transfer and forfeiture restrictions terminate) upon reaching each such price target. In addition, any remaining unvested Performance RSAs vest on February 22, 2011 if the Common Stock closes at or above $41.40 per share for any 20 consecutive trading days which include dates on or before February 22, 2011. Any Performance RSAs that have not otherwise vested pursuant to the preceding two sentences will be forfeited.
The terms of the Integration RSAs shown in the table above provide for vesting of 100% of such RSAs on December 31, 2008, provided the Common Stock closes at or above $44.50 per share for 20 consecutive trading days which include any date on or between July 1, 2008 and December 31, 2008. Any shares of Integration RSAs that have not otherwise vested pursuant to the preceding sentence will be forfeited. Unvested Integration RSAs generally will be foreited upon termination of employment, unless such involves a qualifying termination relating to a change in control or the death or disability of the executive offiver 
. The Integration RSAs were previously disclosed in the Companys Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 17, 2007.
 
- 2 -
The RSAs shown in the table above were granted pursuant to the Companys 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. A form of the standard Restricted Stock Agreement generally used for the Companys 2004 Stock Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Companys Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2005.
 
Non-employee Director Equity Compensation
. On February 22, 2007, the Board approved an annual equity grant of shares of Common Stock to the non-employee directors of the Board. A summary of the current components of compensation for non-employee members of the Board, including the equity grants approved on February 22, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this report.
- 3 -
ITEM 9.01 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
- 4 -
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 5 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
 
 
- 1 -
Overview
This Plan Document is designed to outline the provisions of the Crown Castle International Corp. (CCIC or Company) 2007 Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) effective as of the 1
st
day of January 2007, in accordance with the terms provided herein.
The Company hereby adopts the terms of the Plan as follows:
Section 1. Objectives
The Companys main objectives for the Plan are:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2. Plan Year
The effective date of this Plan is January 1, 2007. The Plan will remain in effect from January 1, 2007, to December 31, 2007 (the Plan Year).
Section 3. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) with oversight by the Board. The Committee shall have the authority to review and approve: (a) the Participants as defined in Section 4, (b) the incentive opportunities for each Participant as defined in Section 6, (c) the methodology for determining the Performance Goals as defined in Section 7, (d) the minimum performance requirements as described in Section 8, and (e) the final Incentive Awards for the Participants as described in Section 9. The Committee shall also have the authority to review and approve any proposed amendments to the Plan throughout the Plan Year. The Committee retains the right to discontinue or amend this Plan at any time. The Committee may use discretion to adjust the Incentive Award levels to account for events that impact the ability to meet the Performance Goals described in Section 7.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the CEO) will be responsible for the interpretation and the day-to-day management of the Plan. The CEO shall also make recommendations to the Committee for review and approval.
Nothing in this Plan is to be considered a guarantee of an Incentive Award.
- 2 -
Section 4. Eligibility
Executive employees who are selected by the CEO, and are approved by the Committee, will be eligible to participate in the Plan (the Participants).
Section 5. Change in Eligibility Status
In making decisions regarding employees participation in the Plan, the CEO may consider any factors that he or she may consider relevant. The following guidelines are provided as general information regarding employee status changes upon the occurrence of the events described below, provided that recommendation to include an employee in the Plan originates from the CEO:
 
 
 
 
 
The above guidelines are subject to the terms of any applicable severance or similar agreements. Nothing in the Plan shall confer any right to any employee to continue in the employ of the Company.
Section 6. Incentive Opportunity
The CEO will determine, and recommend for approval by the Committee, incentive opportunities for each Participant. The incentive opportunities will be defined as Incentive Opportunity Zones that represent a range of threshold, target and maximum performance outcomes for which incremental increases in performance will result in incremental increases in the Incentive Award.
- 3 -
Each Incentive Opportunity Zone will include threshold, target and maximum incentive opportunities. The Participants target incentive opportunity will be based on the Participants role and responsibilities, and will be expressed as a percentage of the Participants base salary. The Participants threshold and maximum incentive opportunities will be expressed as a Payout Multiple of the target incentive opportunity and will also be based on the Participants role and responsibilities. The tables set forth on
Exhibit A
outline the target Payout Multiples for certain Participant categories. 
The target incentive opportunity as a multiple of base salary, and the resulting threshold and maximum opportunities will be determined and approved in writing and kept on file for each Participant in the appropriate Human Resources department.
Section 7. Performance Goals
Each Participant shall have specific performance goals (the Performance Goals) determined for his or her position for the Plan Year. These Performance Goals will be based on certain financial and nonfinancial performance measures that support the approved business plan of the Company and/or business unit, and should identify how the Participant will support the achievement of such goals.
Two performance categories will generally be used for each Participant:
 
 
n
  
Corporate Adjusted EBITDA
- calculated as EBITDA adjusted for non-cash compensation.
 
n
  
Corporate Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share
- calculated as Recurring Free Cash Flow divided by calendar year-end total CCIC common shares outstanding.
 
n
  
Business Unit Adjusted EBITDA
- calculated as Business Unit EBITDA adjusted for Business Unit non-cash compensation.
 
n
  
Business Unit Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share
- calculated as Business Unit Recurring Free Cash Flow divided by calendar year-end total common shares outstanding.
 
n
  
Business Unit Net New Sales
- calculated as New Tenant Revenue adjusted for Churn.
The Performance Goals for these financial measures will generally be based on the Companys 2007 financial budget/forecasts as approved by the Board.
 
The target mix and weighting of the Performance Goals for each Participant will vary depending on the Participants role and responsibilities, as set forth on
Exhibit B
.
For the financial performance measures, threshold, target, and maximum Performance Goals will be established and aligned within the Participants applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone as defined above in Section 6. The threshold, target, and maximum
Performance Goals for these financial measures, based on the Companys budget/forecast for 2007 are set forth on
Exhibit C
.
- 4 -
The threshold, target and maximum individual Performance Goals will be based on how well the Participant met the goals established using the Companys annual performance management system. The Individual Performance Goals will be aligned within the Participants applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone. While the interpretation of how well the Individual Performance Goals are met will be more subjective than for financial measures, the following descriptions will be used to interpret individual performance:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8. Minimum Performance Requirements
There are two minimum performance requirements in order to receive a full Annual Incentive in accordance with the Plan:
- 5 -
Section 9. Incentive Award Calculation
The Incentive Awards will be calculated based on the Incentive Opportunity Zones established for each Participant at the beginning of the Plan Year. The Incentive Opportunity Zones can be depicted as target Incentive Opportunity Curves that correlate the incentive Payout Multiples with each of the Performance Goals.
The target Incentive Opportunity Curves for each of the Performance Goals are set forth on
Exhibit D
.
At Plan Year-end, the following steps will occur to calculate each Participants final Incentive Award:
 
 
 
 
An illustration of how this calculation is performed is set forth on
Exhibit E
.
Section 10. Incentive Award Payments
Incentive Award payments in accordance with this Plan will be processed by the second pay period following the Board of Directors approval of the Plan Years financial statements.

Initial Equity Grant
.
Each newly appointed or elected non-employee director is granted, pursuant to the Crown Castle International Corp. (Company) 2001 Stock Incentive Plan or 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, a number of unrestricted shares of common stock of the Company (Common Stock) having a valuation equal to approximately $90,000, valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the effective date of the directors appointment or election.
Annual Equity Grant
.
At the Boards first regularly scheduled meeting of each year, each non-employee director is granted shares of Common Stock having a valuation equal to approximately $85,000, valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the date of the first Board meeting. An equity award in excess of $85,000 is typically considered by the Board for its Chairman. On February 22, 2007, the Board, upon recommendation from the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, granted pursuant to the 2004 Stock incentive Plan (1) 2,464 shares of common stock (priced at $34.50, the closing price of the Common Stock on February 22, 2007) to each non-employee director of the Board other than J. Landis Martin (or a pro-rated amount thereof to directors not expected to serve past the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders) and (2) 4,348 shares of common stock (priced at $34.50, the closing price of the Common Stock on February 22, 2007) to J. Landis Martin for service as non-employee chairman of the Board.
Retainer and Fees
.
Each non-employee director receives an annual retainer of $20,000 (plus an additional $10,000 for the Audit Committee chairman and an additional $5,000 for each other Board committee chairman) paid quarterly and reimbursement of reasonable incidental expenses. Each non-employee director also receives $1,500 for attendance at each Board meeting held in person and $1,000 for attendance at each Board meeting held by conference call. In addition, each non-employee director receives $1,500 for each Board committee meeting attended (plus, in the case of a Board committee chairman, an additional $1,000 for each committee meeting after the fourth such meeting in any given year).
Other Benefits
.
Each non-employee director is eligible to participate, at such directors cost and election, in the Companys medical and dental plans.
Employee Directors
.
A director who is also an employee of the Company receives no additional compensation for services as a director.


