FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20080225163035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
(e) . On February 21, 2008, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company"), upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the Crown Castle 2008 EMT Annual Incentive Plan ("2008 Incentive Plan") for the Company's executive management team ("EMT"), including the Company's executive officers. Actions taken with respect to John P. Kelly, the Company's Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), were approved by the independent directors of the Board. The 2008 Incentive Plan is intended to provide incentives to members of the Company's EMT in the form of cash bonus payments for achieving certain performance goals established under the 2008 Incentive Plan. Under the 2008 Incentive Plan, each eligible participant has an assigned target bonus level, expressed as a percent of base salary. Depending on the achievement of specified levels of corporate and business unit financial performance goals and individual performance goals, each eligible participant may earn a multiple of the target bonus. The Board's approval of the 2008 Incentive Plan does not create a guarantee of an incentive award to any eligible participant, and the Compensation Committee retains discretion to discontinue or amend the 2008 Incentive Plan at any time. A copy of the 2008 Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1.
2008 EMT Annual Incentive Plan
. On February 21, 2008, the Board, upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the following base salaries, annual incentive awards and restricted stock awards ("RSAs") with respect to the following executive officers of the Company (actions taken with respect to the CEO were approved by the independent directors of the Board):
Executive Officer Compensation
 
The terms of the RSAs shown in the table above provide that the RSAs vest on February 21, 2011 or thereafter if the Common Stock closes at or above $41.50 per share for any 20 consecutive trading days which include dates on or before February 21, 2011. Any RSAs that have not otherwise vested pursuant to the preceding sentence will be forfeited.
The RSAs shown in the table above were granted pursuant to the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended. A form of the standard Restricted Stock Agreement generally used for the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2005.
. On February 21, 2008, the Board approved changes to the retainer and annual equity grant components of compensation for non-employee members of the Board. On February 21, 2008, the Board also approved an annual equity grant of shares of Common Stock to the non-employee
Non-employee Director Equity Compensation
directors of the Board. A summary of the current components of compensation for non-employee members of the Board, including the equity grants approved on February 21, 2008, is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 25, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
Overview
This Plan Document is designed to outline the provisions of the Crown Castle International Corp. ("CCIC" or "Company") 2008 Executive Management Team (EMT) Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan") effective as of the 1
st
day of January 2008, in accordance with the terms provided herein.
The Company hereby adopts the terms of the Plan as follows:
Section 1. Objectives
The Company's main objectives for the Plan are:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2. Plan Year
The effective date of this Plan is January 1, 2008. The Plan will remain in effect from January 1, 2008, to December 31, 2008 (the "Plan Year").
Section 3. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") with oversight by the Board. The Committee shall have the authority to review and approve: (a) the Participants as defined in Section 4, (b) the incentive opportunities for each Participant as defined in Section 6, (c) the methodology for determining the Performance Goals as defined in Section 7, (d) the minimum performance requirements as described in Section 8, and (e) the final Incentive Awards for the Participants as described in Section 9. The Committee shall also have the authority to review and approve any proposed amendments to the Plan throughout the Plan Year. The Committee retains the right to discontinue or amend this Plan at any time. The Committee may use discretion to adjust the Incentive Award levels to account for events that impact the ability to meet the Performance Goals described in Section 7.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the "CEO") will be responsible for the interpretation and the day-to-day management of the Plan. The CEO shall also make recommendations to the Committee for review and approval.
Nothing in this Plan is to be considered a guarantee of an Incentive Award.
 
 
Section 4. Eligibility
Executive employees who are selected by the CEO, and are approved by the Committee, will be eligible to participate in the Plan (the "Participants").
Section 5. Change in Eligibility Status
In making decisions regarding employees' participation in the Plan, the CEO may consider any factors that he or she may consider relevant. The following guidelines are provided as general information regarding employee status changes upon the occurrence of the events described below, provided that recommendation to include an employee in the Plan originates from the CEO:
 
 
 
 
 
The above guidelines are subject to the terms of any applicable severance or similar agreements. Nothing in the Plan shall confer any right to any employee to continue in the employ of the Company.
Section 6. Incentive Opportunity
The CEO will determine, and recommend for approval by the Committee, incentive opportunities for each Participant. The incentive opportunities will be defined as Incentive Opportunity Zones that represent a range of threshold, target and maximum performance outcomes for which incremental increases in performance will result in incremental increases in the Incentive Award.
 
 
Each Incentive Opportunity Zone will include threshold, target and maximum incentive opportunities. The Participant's target incentive opportunity will be based on the Participant's role and responsibilities, and will be expressed as a percentage of the Participant's base salary. The Participant's threshold and maximum incentive opportunities will be expressed as a Payout Multiple of the target incentive opportunity and will also be based on the Participant's role and responsibilities. The tables set forth on outline the target Payout Multiples for certain Participant categories.
Exhibit A
The target incentive opportunity as a multiple of base salary, and the resulting threshold and maximum opportunities will be determined and approved in writing and kept on file for each Participant in the appropriate Human Resources department.
Section 7. Performance Goals
Each Participant shall have specific performance goals (the "Performance Goals") determined for his or her position for the Plan Year. These Performance Goals will be based on certain financial and nonfinancial performance measures that support the approved business plan of the Company and/or business unit, and should identify how the Participant will support the achievement of such goals.
Two performance categories will generally be used for each Participant:
 
 calculated as EBITDA adjusted for non-cash compensation.
Corporate Adjusted EBITDA
 calculated as Recurring Cash Flow divided by calendar year-end total CCIC common shares outstanding.
Corporate Recurring Cash Flow per Share
 calculated as Business Unit EBITDA adjusted for Business Unit non-cash compensation.
Business Unit Adjusted EBITDA
 calculated as Business Unit Recurring Cash Flow divided by calendar year-end total common shares outstanding.
Business Unit Recurring Cash Flow per Share
 calculated as New Tenant Revenue adjusted for Churn.
Business Unit Net New Sales
The Performance Goals for these financial measures will generally be based on the Company's 2008 financial budget/forecasts as approved by the Board.
 
 
 
The target mix and weighting of the Performance Goals for each Participant will vary depending on the Participant's role and responsibilities, as set forth on .
Exhibit B
For the financial performance measures, threshold, target, and maximum Performance Goals will be established and aligned within the Participant's applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone as defined above in Section 6. The threshold, target, and maximum Performance Goals for these financial measures, based on the Company's budget/forecast for 2008 are set forth on .
Exhibit C
The threshold, target and maximum individual Performance Goals will be based on how well the Participant met the goals established using the Company's annual performance management system. The Individual Performance Goals will be aligned within the Participant's applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone. While the interpretation of how well the Individual Performance Goals are met will be more subjective than for financial measures, the following descriptions will be used to interpret individual performance:
 
 
 
 
Section 8. Minimum Performance Requirements
There are two minimum performance requirements in order to receive a full Annual Incentive in accordance with the Plan:
 
 
 
 
Section 9. Incentive Award Calculation
The Incentive Awards will be calculated based on the Incentive Opportunity Zones established for each Participant at the beginning of the Plan Year. The Incentive Opportunity Zones can be depicted as target Incentive Opportunity Curves that correlate the incentive Payout Multiples with each of the Performance Goals.
The target Incentive Opportunity Curves for each of the Performance Goals are set forth on .
Exhibit D
At Plan Year-end, the following steps will occur to calculate each Participant's final Incentive Award:
 
 
 
 
An illustration of how this calculation is performed is set forth on .
Exhibit E
Section 10. Incentive Award Payments
Incentive Award payments in accordance with this Plan will be processed by the second pay period following the Board of Directors approval of the Plan Year's financial statements.
 

Exhibit 10.2
Each newly appointed or elected non-employee director is granted, pursuant to the Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company") 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended ("2004 Plan"), a number of unrestricted shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") having a valuation equal to approximately $90,000, valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the effective date of the director's appointment or election.
.
Initial Equity Grant
At the Board's first regularly scheduled meeting of each year, each non-employee director is granted shares of Common Stock having a valuation equal to approximately $125,000 ($190,000 in the case of the Chairman of the Board), valued at the per share closing price of the Common Stock as of the date of such Board meeting. On February 21, 2008, the Board granted pursuant to the 2004 Plan (1) 3,464 shares of common stock (priced at $36.09, the closing price of the Common Stock on February 21, 2008) to each non-employee director of the Board other than J. Landis Martin and (2) 5,265 shares of common stock (priced at $36.09, the closing price of the Common Stock on February 21, 2008) to J. Landis Martin for service as non-employee chairman of the Board.
.
Annual Equity Grant
Each non-employee director receives an annual retainer of $45,000 (plus an additional $10,000 for the Audit Committee chairman and an additional $5,000 for each other Board committee chairman) paid quarterly and reimbursement of reasonable incidental expenses. Each non-employee director also receives $1,500 for attendance at each Board meeting held "in person" and $1,000 for attendance at each Board meeting held by conference call. In addition, each non-employee director receives $1,500 for each Board committee meeting attended (plus, in the case of a Board committee chairman, an additional $1,000 for each committee meeting after the fourth such meeting in any given year).
.
Retainer and Fees
Each non-employee director is eligible to participate, at such director's cost and election, in the Company's medical and dental plans.
.
Other Benefits
A director who is also an employee of the Company receives no additional compensation for services as a director.
.
Employee Directors


