FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20090702163559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01  OTHER EVENTS
On July 2, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that certain of its indirect subsidiaries have commenced a private offering of up to $250 million of Senior Secured Notes, Series 2009-1. The July 2 press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 2, 2009  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE: CCI) announced today that certain of its indirect subsidiaries have commenced a private offering of up to $250 million of Senior Secured Notes, Series 2009-1 ("Notes"). Such subsidiaries hold a portion of the U.S. towers acquired by Crown Castle in its acquisition of Global Signal, Inc. The Notes will be secured on a first priority basis by a pledge of the equity interests of the subsidiaries holding such towers and by certain other assets of such subsidiaries.
The net proceeds of the offering will be used by the subsidiaries, together with other cash, to repay in full the outstanding mortgage loans of such subsidiaries relating to the Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2004-2 (the "Certificates") issued in 2004 by Global Signal Trust II, together with related prepayment premiums. The proceeds of such repayment will be deposited with the trustee for the Certificates and will be distributed to the holders of such Certificates in accordance with the terms of the Trust.
The Notes will be obligations of the subsidiaries that are currently obligors under the mortgage loans being repaid. The Notes will not be guaranteed by and will not be obligations of Crown Castle International Corp. or any of its other subsidiaries.
Crown Castle anticipates pricing the Notes in mid-July 2009 and closing the offering at the end of July.
This press release is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the Notes in any jurisdiction in which any such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws, and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
 
Crown Castle owns, operates, and leases towers and other communication structures for wireless communications. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 91 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 22,000 and approximately 1,600 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle, please visit .
http://www.crowncastle.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on Crown Castle management's current expectations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions and other factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors that could affect Crown Castle and its results is included in Crown Castle's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


