FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20090225161807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
(c) On February 19, 2009, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Crown Castle International Corp. ("Company") promoted James D. Young, 47, formerly President  Tower Operations, to Chief Operating Officer, a previously vacant position.
Mr. Young was appointed President  Tower Operations of the Company in October 2005 and has nearly 25 years of experience in the telecom industry. Before joining the Company, Mr. Young served as the Region Vice President  Engineering & Operations at Sprint Nextel Corp.
(e) . On February 19, 2009, the Board, upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the Crown Castle 2009 EMT Annual Incentive Plan ("2009 Incentive Plan") for the Company's executive management team ("EMT"), including W. Benjamin Moreland, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, John P. Kelly, the Company's Executive Vice Chairman, and the Company's other executive officers. The 2009 Incentive Plan is intended to provide incentives to members of the Company's EMT in the form of cash payments for achieving certain performance goals established under the 2009 Incentive Plan. Under the 2009 Incentive Plan, each eligible participant has an assigned target bonus level, expressed as a percent of base salary. Depending on the achievement of specified levels of corporate and business unit financial performance goals and individual performance goals, each eligible participant may earn a multiple of the target bonus. The Board's approval of the 2009 Incentive Plan does not create a guarantee of an incentive award to any eligible participant, and the Compensation Committee retains discretion to discontinue or amend the 2009 Incentive Plan at any time. A copy of the 2009 Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
2009 EMT Annual Incentive Plan
. On February 19, 2009, the Board, upon recommendation from the Compensation Committee, approved the following base salaries, annual incentives and restricted stock awards ("RSAs") with respect to the following executive officers of the Company:
Executive Officer Compensation
The terms of the 2009 Time Vest RSAs shown in the table above provide that one-third of the shares underlying such RSAs vest (i.e., the forfeiture and transfer restrictions lapse) on February 19 of each of 2010, 2011 and 2012.
The terms of the 2009 Performance RSAs shown in the table above provide for 0% to 100% of the shares to vest on February 19, 2012 ("Termination Date") based upon the Company's common stock ("Common Stock") achieving a performance measure ("Performance Measure") based upon the highest average closing price per share of the Common Stock for 20 consecutive trading days during the period commencing August 24, 2011 and ending on (and including) the Termination Date ("Highest Average Price"). The Performance Measure determines the percentage of the 2009 Performance RSAs that will vest on the Termination Date.
 
If the Highest Average Price is $23.15 or greater but not above $28.10 ("Lower Range"), then (1) 25% of the 2009 Performance RSAs will vest plus (2) an additional amount up to 25% of the 2009 Performance RSAs will vest determined on a prorata basis based upon the level of the Highest Average Price achieved within the Lower Range, up to an aggregate percentage of 50% of such 2009 Performance RSAs vesting if a Highest Average Price of $28.10 is achieved (i.e., approximately an additional 5.0505% of the 2009 Performance RSAs vest for each $1.00 increase in the Highest Average Price within the Lower Range).
If the Highest Average Price is $28.11 or more ("Upper Range"), then (1) 50% of the 2009 Performance RSAs will vest plus (2) an additional amount up to 50% of the 2009 Performance RSAs will vest determined on a prorata basis based upon the level of the Highest Average Price achieved within the Upper Range, up to an aggregate percentage of 100% of such 2009 Performance RSAs vesting if a Highest Average Price of $39.06 or above is achieved (i.e., approximately an additional 4.5620% of the 2009 Performance RSAs vest for each $1.00 increase in the Highest Average Price within the Upper Range up to $39.06). The following table illustrates the 2009 Performance RSA vesting terms described above:
In addition, if the closing share price of the Common Stock is at or above $23.15 on the Termination Date and a Performance Measure has not been satisfied as described above, then 25% of the 2009 Performance RSAs will vest if and upon the closing share price of the Common Stock being at or above $23.15 for a period of 20 consecutive trading days that includes the Termination Date.
The 2009 Time Vest RSAs and 2009 Performance RSAs were granted pursuant to the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended ("2004 Stock Incentive Plan"). A form of the standard Restricted Stock Agreement generally used for the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2005.
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CORP.
By: Name: E. Blake Hawk Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel
/s/ E. Blake Hawk
Date: February 25, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Overview
This Plan Document is designed to outline the provisions of the Crown Castle International Corp. (CCIC or Company) 2009 Executive Management Team (EMT) Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) effective as of the 1 day of January 2009, in accordance with the terms provided herein.
st
The Company hereby adopts the terms of the Plan as follows:
Section 1. Objectives
The Companys main objectives for the Plan are:
Section 2. Plan Year
The effective date of this Plan is January 1, 2009. The Plan will remain in effect from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2009 (the Plan Year).
Section 3. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) with oversight by the Board. The Committee shall have the authority to review and approve: (a) the Participants as defined in Section 4, (b) the incentive opportunities for each Participant as defined in Section 6, (c) the methodology for determining the Performance Goals as defined in Section 7, (d) the minimum performance requirements as described in Section 8, and (e) the final Incentive Awards for the Participants as described in Section 9. The Committee shall also have the authority to review and approve any proposed amendments to the Plan throughout the Plan Year. The Committee retains the right to discontinue or amend this Plan at any time. The Committee may use discretion to adjust the Incentive Award levels to account for events that impact the ability to meet the Performance Goals described in Section 7.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the CEO) will be responsible for the interpretation and the day-to-day management of the Plan. The CEO shall also make recommendations to the Committee for review and approval.
Nothing in this Plan is to be considered a guarantee of an Incentive Award.
 
Section 4. Eligibility
Executive employees who are selected by the CEO, and are approved by the Committee, will be eligible to participate in the Plan (the Participants).
Section 5. Change in Eligibility Status
In making decisions regarding employees participation in the Plan, the CEO may consider any factors that he or she may consider relevant. The following guidelines are provided as general information regarding employee status changes upon the occurrence of the events described below, provided that recommendation to include an employee in the Plan originates from the CEO:
The above guidelines are subject to the terms of any applicable severance or similar agreements. Nothing in the Plan shall confer any right to any employee to continue in the employ of the Company.
Section 6. Incentive Opportunity
The CEO will determine, and recommend for approval by the Committee, incentive opportunities for each Participant. The incentive opportunities will be defined as Incentive Opportunity Zones that represent a range of threshold, target and maximum performance outcomes for which incremental increases in performance will result in incremental increases in the Incentive Award.
 
Each Incentive Opportunity Zone will include threshold, target and maximum incentive opportunities. The Participants target incentive opportunity will be based on the Participants role and responsibilities, and will be expressed as a percentage of the Participants base salary. The Participants threshold and maximum incentive opportunities will be expressed as a Payout Multiple of the target incentive opportunity and will also be based on the Participants role and responsibilities. The tables set forth on outline the target Payout Multiples for certain Participant categories. The target incentive opportunity as a multiple of base salary, and the resulting threshold and maximum opportunities will be determined and approved in writing and kept on file for each Participant in the appropriate Human Resources department.
Exhibit A
Section 7. Performance Goals
Each Participant shall have specific performance goals (the Performance Goals) determined for his or her position for the Plan Year. These Performance Goals will be based on certain financial and nonfinancial performance measures that support the approved business plan of the Company and/or business unit, and should identify how the Participant will support the achievement of such goals.
Two performance categories will generally be used for each Participant:
  calculated as EBITDA adjusted for non-cash compensation.
Corporate Adjusted EBITDA
  calculated as Recurring Cash Flow divided by calendar year-end total CCIC common shares outstanding.
Corporate Recurring Cash Flow per Share
  calculated as Business Unit Adjusted EBITDA adjusted for Sustaining Capital Expenditures.
Business Unit Recurring Cash Flow
  calculated as New Tenant Revenue adjusted for Churn and FAS on new BBEs.
Business Unit Net New Sales
The Performance Goals for these financial measures will generally be based on the Companys 2009 financial budget/forecasts as approved by the Board.
The target mix and weighting of the Performance Goals for each Participant will vary depending on the Participants role and responsibilities, as set forth on .
Exhibit B
 
For the financial performance measures, threshold, target, and maximum Performance Goals will be established and aligned within the Participants applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone as defined above in Section 6. The threshold, target, and maximum Performance Goals for these financial measures, based on the Companys budget/forecast for 2009 are set forth on .
Exhibit C
The threshold, target and maximum individual Performance Goals will be based on how well the Participant met the goals established using the Companys annual performance management system. The Individual Performance Goals will be aligned within the Participants applicable Incentive Opportunity Zone. While the interpretation of how well the Individual Performance Goals are met will be more subjective than for financial measures, the following descriptions will be used to interpret individual performance:
Section 8. Minimum Performance Requirements
There are three minimum performance requirements in order to receive a full Annual Incentive in accordance with the Plan:
 
Section 9. Incentive Award Calculation
The Incentive Awards will be calculated based on the Incentive Opportunity Zones established for each Participant at the beginning of the Plan Year. The Incentive Opportunity Zones can be depicted as target Incentive Opportunity Curves that correlate the incentive Payout Multiples with each of the Performance Goals.
The target Incentive Opportunity Curves for each of the Performance Goals are set forth on .
Exhibit D
At Plan Year-end, the following steps will occur to calculate each Participants final Incentive Award:
An illustration of how this calculation is performed is set forth on .
Exhibit E
Section 10. Incentive Award Payments
Incentive Award payments in accordance with this Plan will be processed by the second pay period following the Board of Directors approval of the Plan Years financial statements.


