FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20100728193241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 28, 2010, the Company issued a press release disclosing its financial results for the second quarter of 2010. The July 28 press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
As described in Item 2.02 of this Report, the following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
July 28, 2010  HOUSTON, TEXAS  Crown Castle International Corp. (NYSE:CCI) today reported results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
"We had a strong second quarter, exceeding our Outlook for site rental gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and recurring cash flow," stated Ben Moreland, President and Chief Executive Officer of Crown Castle. "We continue to enjoy solid growth in our business and remain excited about the strong fundamentals underlying our industry as reflected in our full year 2010 Outlook, which now suggests annual recurring cash flow growth of 17%. Consistent with our long-term strategy, we have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NewPath Networks, Inc. ("NewPath"), one of the leading providers of distributed antenna systems ("DAS") networks, which we expect to close later this quarter. The acquisition of NewPath furthers our ability to extend wireless infrastructure for customers beyond those areas served by traditional towers, thereby broadening our service offering in this growing market."
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS
Site rental revenues for second quarter 2010 increased $33.2 million, or 9%, to $409.6 million from $376.4 million for the same period in the prior year. Site rental gross margin, defined as site rental revenues less site rental cost of operations, increased 12% to $294.2 million, up $31.1 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $263.1 million in the same period in 2009. Adjusted EBITDA for second quarter 2010 increased $33.2 millionor 13%, to $280.1 million, up from $246.9 million for the same period in 2009.
,
 
News Release continued:
Recurring cash flow, defined as Adjusted EBITDA less interest expense less sustaining capital expenditures, increased from $131.5 million in the second quarter of 2009 to $154.9 million for the second quarter of 2010, up 18%. Recurring cash flow per share, defined as recurring cash flow divided by weighted average common shares outstanding, was $0.54 in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $0.46 in the second quarter of 2009, an increase of 18%.
Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders was $(97.5) million for the second quarter of 2010, inclusive of $114.6 million of net losses from interest rate swaps, compared to $(111.4) million for the same period in 2009, inclusive of $59.5 million of net losses from interest rate swaps. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC common stockholders after deduction of dividends on preferred stock was $(102.7) million in the second quarter of 2010, compared to $(116.6) million for the same period in 2009. Second quarter 2010 net income (loss) attributable to CCIC common stockholders after deduction of dividends on preferred stock per common share was $(0.36), compared to $(0.41) in the second quarter of 2009.
NEWPATH NETWORKS ACQUISITION
On July 1, 2010, Crown Castle entered into an agreement to acquire NewPath for $115.0 million (subject to certain adjustments). NewPath is a privately-held DAS provider with an experienced management team and a successful track record with each of the major wireless operators. NewPath currently has 35 DAS networks in operation or under construction. Following the expected acquisition, Crown Castle expects to have 44 DAS networks in operation or under construction. The acquisition is expected to close in September 2010.
INVESTMENTS AND LIQUIDITY
"Our business continued to perform very well during the second quarter as we grew site rental revenues 9% and recurring cash flow per share 18% on a year-over-year basis," stated Jay Brown, Chief Financial Officer of Crown Castle. "Our growth in recurring cash flow per share reflects the significant operating leverage in our business combined with our long-standing efforts to maintain a reasonably levered balance sheet and make investments which we believe will maximize our long-term recurring cash flow per share. Since April 1, 2010, we made a number of investments we believe will enhance our long-term recurring cash flow per share growth, including the purchase of our common shares, the acquisition of land beneath our towers, and the contemplated acquisition of NewPath, which will further our investment in DAS. Given the strong performance of our business in the second quarter and our expectations for the second half of 2010, we have increased our 2010 Outlook for site rental revenue, site rental gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow."
 
News Release continued:
During the second quarter of 2010, Crown Castle spent $38.2 million to purchase its common shares at an average price of $37.01 per share. Common shares outstanding at June 30, 2010 were 285.8 million. Since January 2003, Crown Castle has spent $2.4 billion to purchase approximately 92 million of its common shares and potential shares, at an average price of $25.59 per share.
During the second quarter of 2010, Crown Castle invested $54.9 million in capital expenditures comprised of $30.8 million of land purchases, $4.9 million of sustaining capital expenditures and $19.2 million of revenue generating capital expenditures, consisting of $16.0 million on existing sites and $3.2 million on the construction of new sites.
As of June 30, 2010, Crown Castle had approximately $242 million in cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) and $400 million of availability under its revolving credit facility. A summary of our current debt outstanding is set forth below under "Other Calculations."
In addition to the tables and information contained in this press release, Crown Castle will post supplemental information on its website at that will be discussed during its conference call tomorrow morning, Thursday, July 29, 2010.
http://investor.crowncastle.com
 
News Release continued:
OUTLOOK
This Outlook section contains forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. Information regarding potential risks which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements herein is set forth below and in Crown Castle's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The following Outlook table is based on current expectations and assumptions and assumes a US dollar to Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.86 US dollars and 0.88 US dollars to 1.00 Australian dollar for third quarter and full year 2010 Outlook, respectively.
As reflected in the following table, Crown Castle has increased the midpoint of its full year 2010 Outlook, previously issued on April 28, 2010, for site rental revenue by $4.5 million, site rental gross margin by $7.0 million, Adjusted EBITDA by $15.5 million, and recurring cash flow by $20.5 million. For the purposes of this Outlook, interest expense is based on debt outstanding as of July 28, 2010.
The following table sets forth Crown Castle's current Outlook for the third quarter of 2010 and full year 2010:
 
News Release continued:
CONFERENCE CALL DETAILS
Crown Castle has scheduled a conference call for Thursday, July 29, 2010, at 10:30 a.m. eastern time. The conference call may be accessed by dialing 480-629-9866 and asking for the Crown Castle call at least 30 minutes prior to the start time. The conference call may also be accessed live over the Internet by logging onto the web at . Any supplemental materials for the call will be posted at the Crown Castle website at .
http://investor.crowncastle.com
http://investor.crowncastle.com
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available from 12:30 p.m. eastern time on Thursday, July 29, 2010 through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on Thursday, August 5, 2010 and may be accessed by dialing 303-590-3030 using passcode 4329036. An audio archive will also be available on the company's website at shortly after the call and will be accessible for approximately 90 days.
http://investor.crowncastle.com
Crown Castle owns, operates, and leases towers and other communication structures for wireless communications. Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 92 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population. Crown Castle owns, operates and manages over 22,000 and approximately 1,600 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively. For more information on Crown Castle, please visit .
http://www.crowncastle.com
 
News Release continued:
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Calculations
This press release includes presentations of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Crown Castle defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on purchases and redemptions of debt, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest and other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flow from operations (as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP")).
Crown Castle defines recurring cash flow to be Adjusted EBITDA, less interest expense and less sustaining capital expenditures. Each of the amounts included in the calculation of recurring cash flow are computed in accordance with GAAP, with the exception of sustaining capital expenditures, which is not defined under GAAP. We define sustaining capital expenditures as capital expenditures (determined in accordance with GAAP) which do not increase the capacity or life of our revenue generating assets and include capitalized costs related to (i) maintenance activities on our towers, (ii) vehicles, (iii) information technology equipment, and (iv) office equipment. Recurring cash flow is not intended as an alternative measure of cash flow from operations or operating results (as determined in accordance with GAAP).
Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow are presented as additional information because management believes these measures are useful indicators of the financial performance of our core businesses. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure of current financial performance used in our debt covenant calculations. Our measures of Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including other companies in the tower sector. The tables set forth below reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to comparable GAAP financial measures. The components in these tables may not sum to the total due to rounding.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable GAAP Financial Measures:
Adjusted EBITDA, recurring cash flow and recurring cash flow per share for the quarters ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 are computed as follows
:
 
News Release continued:
Other Calculations:
Adjusted EBITDA and recurring cash flow for the quarter ending September 30, 2010 and the year ending
December 31, 2010 are forecasted as follows:
The components of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs are as follows:
The components of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs are forecasted as follows:
 
News Release continued:
Debt balances and maturity dates as of June 30, 2010:
Sustaining capital expenditures for the quarters ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 is computed as follows:
Site rental gross margin for the quarter ending September 30, 2010 and for the year ending December 31, 2010 is forecasted as follows:
 
News Release continued:
This press release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on our management's current expectations. Such statements include plans, projections, Outlook and estimates regarding (i) demand for our towers and services, (ii) the expansion and growth of our business, (iii) the contemplated NewPath acquisition, including timing and anticipated benefits with respect thereto, (iv) our investments of cash from cash flows and other sources, including the availability and type of investments and the impact and return on our investments, (v) currency exchange rates, (vi) site rental revenues, (vii) site rental cost of operations, (viii) site rental gross margin, (ix) Adjusted EBITDA, (x) interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, (xi) capital expenditures, including sustaining capital expenditures, (xii) recurring cash flow, including on a per share basis, (xiii) net income (loss), including on a per share basis, and (xiv) the utility of certain financial measures in analyzing our results. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to prevailing market conditions and the following:
Should one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected. More information about potential risk factors which could affect our results is included in our filings with the SEC. As used in this press release, the term "including," and any variation thereof, means "including, without limitation."
 
News Release continued:
 
News Release continued:
 
News Release continued:
 
(dollars in millions)
CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CORP. EBITDA Fact Sheet
(dollars in millions)
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted EBITDA) to GAAP Financial Measure:
Note: Components may not sum to total due to rounding.
 
CCI FACT SHEET Q2 2009 to Q2 2010
dollars in millions
Note: Components may not sum to total due to rounding.


