FILE:CCI/CCI-8K-20121214192012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On December 13, 2012, Crown Castle Operating Company (), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Crown Castle International Corp. (), entered into an Incremental Facility Amendment () among the Company, the Borrower, certain subsidiaries of the Borrower, the lenders party thereto, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (), as administrative agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (), as syndication agent, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. (), as co-documentation agent, to the Credit Agreement dated as of January 31, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ), by and among the Borrower, the Company, the lenders and issuing banks from time to time party thereto, RBS, as administrative agent, MLPFS, as syndication agent, and MSSF, as co-documentation agent.  The Incremental Facility Amendment increased the aggregate revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement by $500 million, such that the aggregate revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement after giving effect to the Incremental Facility Amendment are $1.5 billion.
Borrower
Company
Incremental Facility Amendment
RBS
MLPFS
MSSF
Credit Agreement
 
The foregoing summary of the Incremental Facility Amendment does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Incremental Facility Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Credit Agreement has been previously filed with, and is described in, the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 2012.
 
 
ITEM 8.01  OTHER EVENTS
On December 13, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the effectiveness of the Incremental Facility Amendment and the intention of the Company to use (x) borrowings under its senior secured revolving credit facility and (y) a portion of the proceeds of the previously-announced offering of $1.5 billion of senior secured notes by CC Holdings GS V LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, to finance the previously-announced tender offer for any or all of the Companys outstanding 9.0% Senior Notes due 2015.
The December 13th press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
            
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
INCREMENTAL FACILITY AMENDMENT dated as of December 13, 2012 (this ), to the CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of January 31, 2012 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), among CROWN CASTLE INTERNATIONAL CORP., a Delaware corporation (), CROWN CASTLE OPERATING COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the ), the LENDERS and ISSUING BANKS party thereto, THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, as Administrative Agent (the ), MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, as Syndication Agent, and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Co-Documentation Agent.
Amendment
Credit Agreement
Holdings
Borrower
Administrative Agent
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower, in accordance with Section 2.21 of the Credit Agreement, hereby requests that the Revolving Commitment Increase Lenders (as defined below) (a) provide a Revolving Commitment Increase (as defined in the Credit Agreement) on the Effective Date (as defined below) in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500,000,000 (the ) and (b) make Revolving Loans to the Borrower in respect thereof from time to time during the Revolving Availability Period subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement; and
Increase
 
WHEREAS, each Person party hereto whose name is set forth on Schedule 1 hereto under the heading Revolving Commitment Increase Lenders (each such Person, a ) has agreed (a) to provide a portion of the Increase to the Borrower in the amount set forth opposite its name on such Schedule and (b) to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower in respect thereof from time to time during the Revolving Availability Period subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement.
Revolving Commitment Increase Lender
 
WHEREAS, this Amendment is an Incremental Facility Amendment entered into pursuant to Section 2.21 of the Credit Agreement to provide for the Increase and the Revolving Loans made pursuant thereto referred to above.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, and subject to the conditions set forth herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.    Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  The rules of interpretation set forth in Section 1.03 of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference herein, .
Defined Terms.
mutatis
mutandis
 
SECTION 2.  
Revolving Commitment Increase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Schedule 1 hereto sets forth the portion of the Increase of each Revolving Commitment Increase Lender as of the Effective Date.  The portion of the Increase of each Revolving Commitment Increase Lender shall be several and not joint.
 
(b)  On the Effective Date, (i) the aggregate principal amount of  Revolving Borrowings outstanding immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Increase (the ) shall be deemed to be repaid, (ii) each Revolving Commitment Increase Lender shall make such payments to the Administrative Agent as are required by clauses (ii) or (iii), as applicable, of Section 2.21(d) of the Credit Agreement with respect to its portion of the Increase, (iii) the Administrative Agent shall make such payments to the Revolving Lenders as are required by clause (iv) of Section 2.21(d) of the Credit Agreement with respect to the Increase, (iv) after the effectiveness of the Increase, the Borrower shall be deemed to have made new Revolving Borrowings (the ) in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Existing Revolving Borrowings and of the Types and for the Interest Periods specified in the Borrowing Request delivered pursuant to Section 4(d) hereof, (v) each Revolving Lender shall hold its Applicable Percentage of the Resulting Revolving Borrowings (calculated after giving effect to the effectiveness of the Increase) and (vi) the Borrower shall pay to each Revolving Lender (prior to the effectiveness of the Increase) any and all accrued but unpaid interest on its Loans comprising the Existing Revolving Borrowings, together with any amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.16 of the Credit Agreement in respect of the repayment contemplated by clause (i) of this paragraph (b), in each case as required by and pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Existing Revolving Borrowings
Resulting Revolving Borrowings
 
(c)  Each Revolving Commitment Increase Lender, by delivering its signature page to this Amendment on the Effective Date, shall be deemed to have acknowledged receipt of, and consented to and approved, each Loan Document and each other document required to be delivered to, or be approved by or satisfactory to, the Administrative Agent or any Class of Lenders on the Effective Date.
 
SECTION 3.    Each of the Loan Parties represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and to each of the Revolving Commitment Increase Lenders that:
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a)  This Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
 
(b)  The representations and warranties of each Loan Party set forth in the Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects (or, in the case of representations and warranties qualified as to materiality, in all respects) on and as of the Effective Date, except in the case of any such representation and warranty that expressly relates to a prior date, in which case such representation and warranty is true and correct in all material respects (or in all respects, as applicable) as of such earlier date.
 
 
 
2
 
 
(c)  At the time of and immediately after giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
 
SECTION 4.    This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written (the ) when (a) the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment that, when taken together, bear the signatures of Holdings, the Borrower, each of the other Loan Parties and each of the Revolving Commitment Increase Lenders, (b) each of the conditions set forth in subclauses (A) through (D) (inclusive) of the proviso in Section 2.21(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement shall have been satisfied, (c) each of the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3 hereof shall be true and correct, (d) the Borrower shall have delivered a Borrowing Request with respect to the Resulting Revolving Borrowings, (e) the Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, the Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby (including certified resolutions from the board of directors of the Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment), all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (f) the Administrative Agent shall have received a legal opinion reasonably satisfactory to it from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, special New York counsel for the Loan Parties, and (g) the Administrative Agent shall have received payment of all expenses required to be paid or reimbursed by Holdings, the Borrower or any other Loan Party under or in connection with this Amendment, including those expenses set forth in Section 8 hereof.
Effectiveness.
Effective Date
 
SECTION 5.    Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment (a) shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, Holdings, the Borrower or any other Loan Party under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document and (b) shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle Holdings, the Borrower or any other Loan Party to any future consent to, or waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.  After the Effective Date, any reference in the Loan Documents to the Credit Agreement shall mean the Credit Agreement as modified hereby.  This Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Credit Agreement.
 
SECTION 6.    (a)  
Applicable Law; Waiver of Jury Trial.
THIS AMENDMENT AND ANY CLAIMS, CONTROVERSY, DISPUTE OR CAUSE OF ACTION (WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE) BASED UPON, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AMENDMENT AND THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
(b)  
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY AGREES AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 9.10 OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT AS IF SUCH SECTION WERE SET FORTH IN FULL HEREIN.
 
SECTION 7.    This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission or other electronic imaging shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.  This Amendment may not be amended nor may any provision hereof be waived except pursuant to a writing signed by Holdings, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Revolving Commitment Increase Lenders.
Counterparts; Amendment.
 
SECTION 8.    Holdings and the Borrower agree to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in connection with this Amendment to the extent required under Section 9.03 of the Credit Agreement.
Expenses.
 
SECTION 9.    Each of the Borrower and each other Loan Party hereby (a) reaffirms its obligations under the Credit Agreement and each other Loan Document to which it is a party, in each case as amended by this Amendment, (b) reaffirms all Liens on the Collateral which have been granted by it in favor of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) pursuant to the Loan Documents and (c) acknowledges and agrees that the grants of security interests by and the guarantees of the Loan Parties contained in the Collateral Agreement and the other Security Documents are, and shall remain, in full force and effect immediately after giving effect to this Amendment.
Reaffirmation.
 
SECTION 10.    The Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Amendment and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Amendment.
Headings.
 
 
4
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
December 13, 2012  HOUSTON, TX  Crown Castle International Corp. (Crown Castle) (NYSE: CCI) today announced that its direct wholly owned subsidiary, Crown Castle Operating Company (CCOC), increased the size of its $1.0 billion Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility (Revolver), maturing on January 31, 2017, by $500 million to a total capacity of $1.5 billion.  All other existing terms of the Revolver remain unchanged.
Borrowings under the Revolver, together with a portion of the proceeds from the previously-announced offering of $1.5 billion of senior secured notes by Crown Castles subsidiary, CC Holdings GS V LLC, are expected to be used to finance the previously-announced tender offer for any and all of Crown Castles outstanding 9.00% Senior Notes due 2015.
Loans under the Revolver bear interest at a per annum rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.0% to 2.75%, based on CCOCs total net leverage ratio.  As of December 13, 2012, Crown Castle has $770 million drawn under the Revolver and Crown Castle expects to draw an additional $450 million to fund the aforementioned tender offer.
The Revolver increase was arranged by RBS Securities Inc.
 
About Crown Castle
 
Crown Castle owns, operates and leases towers and other infrastructure for wireless communications.  Crown Castle offers significant wireless communications coverage to 92 of the top 100 US markets and to substantially all of the Australian population.  Crown Castle owns, operates and manages approximately 30,000 and 1,700 wireless communication sites in the US and Australia, respectively.  For more information on Crown Castle, please visit .
www.crowncastle.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on Crown Castle management's current expectations.  Such statements include plans, projections and estimates regarding the use of proceeds from the previously-announced notes offering and the Revolver.  Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions and other factors.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected.  More information about potential risk factors that could affect Crown Castle's results is included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The term "including," and any variation thereof, means "including, without limitation."
 


