FILE:POM/POM-8K-20021024162536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 

                                                                                                                                                                   701 Ninth Street NW                                                                                                                                                                 Washington, DC 20068                                                                                                                                                    Media Relations: 202-872-2680                                                                                                                                                               www.pepcoholdings.com
NEWS RELEASE            
                                                                                                                                      NYSE: POM
For Immediate Release                                                                      Media Contact:      Robert Dobkin      (202) 872-2680 October 24, 2002                                                                              Investor Relations:  Ernie Bourscheid  (202) 872-2797
                         Pepco Holdings Reports Third-Quarter Earnings                                   Declares Dividend on Common Stock                                           Conference Call Scheduled
          Pepco Holdings, Incorporated (NYSE: POM) today reported consolidated earnings for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2002, of $115.2 million, or 80 cents per share, on operating revenue of $1.64 billion. PHI was formed earlier this year to effect Potomac Electric Power Company's (Pepco) acquisition of Wilmington, Del.-based Conectiv.
          The current third-quarter results include Pepco and its pre-merger subsidiaries for the entire period consolidated with results from Conectiv and its subsidiaries beginning Aug. 1, the date the merger was completed. Comparisons to third-quarter 2001 and year-to-date 2001 are not meaningful since under purchase accounting rules, Conectiv's results of operations are not included in these periods. For the third-quarter 2001, Pepco and its pre-merger subsidiaries reported consolidated earnings of $68.7 million, or 64 cents per share, on operating revenue of $720 million.
          PHI's consolidated earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30 were $184.1 million, or $1.54 per share, on operating revenue of $2.72 billion. For the year-to-date period in 2001, Pepco and its pre-merger subsidiaries reported consolidated earnings of $180.6 million, or $1.66 per share, on operating revenue of $1.92 billion.
OTHER INFORMATION
Common Stock Dividend Declared
          Today Pepco Holdings' Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of 25 cents per share payable Dec. 31, 2002, to shareholders of record on Dec. 10, 2002.
Conference Call for Investors
          Pepco Holdings will host a conference call to discuss third-quarter results on Tuesday, Oct. 29, 2002 at 9 a.m. EST. Individual investors, members of the news media and other interested parties may access the conference call "live" on the Internet at or by telephone at (212) 676-5211. A taped replay of the conference call will be available at 11 a.m. EST and will remain available through 11 a.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 5, 2002. To hear it, call (800) 633-8284 or (402) 977-9140 and enter access code 20922176. An audio archive also will be available on the Pepco Holdings Web site.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com
Pepco Holdings, Inc. is a diversified energy company with headquarters in Washington, D.C. Its principal operating utilities, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Light and Atlantic City Electric Company, deliver 50,000 gigawatt-hours of power to more than 1.8 million customers in Washington, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia. PHI engages in regulated utility operations by delivering electricity and natural gas, and provides competitive energy and energy products and services to residential and commercial customers.
__________________________
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law. These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events. They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Pepco Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This information is presented solely to provide additional information to further understand the results and prospects of Pepco Holdings.
Forward-Looking Statements:
   Attachments Containing Earnings Per Share Detail, Consolidated Quarterly and Year-to-Date Results                                                       and Selected Financial Information Follow
ABOUT PEPCO HOLDINGS
          Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:POM) is a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA) that was formed for the purpose of effecting Potomac Electric Power Company's (Pepco) acquisition of Conectiv. In accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, upon the consummation of the merger on August 1, 2002, Pepco and Conectiv became wholly owned subsidiaries of Pepco Holdings. Pepco Holdings manages its operations as follows: Power Deliveryconsists of the operations of Pepco, Delmarva Power and Light (DPL), and Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE). The operations of DPL and ACE are collectively referred to as "Conectiv Power Delivery." Pepco is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in the Washington D.C. metropolitan area. Conectiv Power Delivery is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Delaware and portions of Maryland, New Jersey, and Virginia, and gas distribution in northern Delaware. Competitive Energy consists of the non-regulated operations of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services, Inc. (PES). Conectiv Energy is principally engaged in electricity production, energy-risk management, and marketing. PES provides integrated energy management solutions to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers and offers electricity and gas to residential and commercial customers in the Mid-Atlantic region. Other Non-Regulated primarily consists of the operations of Potomac Capital Investment Corporation (PCI) and Pepco Communications, Inc. (Pepcom). PCI focuses on energy related financial investments and strategic operating businesses. Pepcom manages a 50% interest in Starpower Communications, LLC, a joint venture with RCN Corporation, which provides cable and telecommunications services to households in the Washington D.C. area.
EARNINGS PER SHARE DETAIL
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY RESULTS
Pepco Holdings today reported consolidated earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2002, of 80 cents per share. The 2002 Pepco Holdings earnings include contributions from the operations of Conectiv Power Delivery and Conectiv Energy for the post-merger months of August and September 2002. Comparisons to third-quarter 2001 are not meaningful since under purchase accounting rules, Conectiv's results of operations are not included in this period. Pepco and its pre-merger subsidiaries reported consolidated earnings for the third quarter 2001 of 64 cents per share.
          
Power Delivery Results
          Pepco earned 49 cents per share for the third quarter of 2002 compared to 56 cents during the 2001 quarter. The 7-cent decrease resulted from the following:
          Conectiv Power Delivery contributed 15 cents to Pepco Holdings' third quarter 2002 earnings per share. This amount represents its contribution to earnings per share for the post-merger months of August and September 2002. Conectiv Power Delivery's results were also favorably impacted by hotter than normal summer weather.
Competitive Energy Results
          Conectiv Energy contributed 16 cents per share to Pepco Holdings third quarter earnings per share. This amount represents its contribution to earnings per share for the post-merger months of August and September 2002.
          PES earned 2 cents per share during the 2002 third quarter compared to earnings of 4 cents during the corresponding quarter last year. The decrease in PES' earnings results primarily from higher congestion charges in its retail commodity business, reduced earnings from its power plants, and from a general slowdown in its energy efficiency construction business.
Other Non-Regulated Results
          PCI earned 8 cents per share during the 2002 third quarter compared to 7 cents per share during the corresponding quarter last year. The increase over the prior quarter is primarily due to new energy related financial investments.
          Pepcom lost 2 cents per share during the 2002 third quarter compared to a 3-cent loss during the corresponding quarter last year. This change primarily results from improved operations.
CONSOLIDATED NINE MONTHS ENDED RESULTS
          Pepco Holdings today reported consolidated earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2002, of $1.54 per share. The 2002 Pepco Holdings earnings include contributions from the operations of Conectiv Power Delivery and Conectiv Energy for the post-merger months of August and September 2002. Comparisons to year-to-date 2001 are not meaningful since under purchase accounting rules, Conectiv's results of operations are not included in this period. Pepco and its pre-merger subsidiaries reported consolidated earnings for year- to-date 2001 of $1.66 per share.
Power Delivery Results
          Pepco earned $1.05 per share for the nine month period ended September 30, 2002 compared to $1.55 during the corresponding 2001 period. The 50-cent decrease resulted from the following:
         Conectiv Power Delivery contributed 18 cents to Pepco Holdings nine month earnings per share. This amount represents its contribution to earnings per share for the post-merger months of August and September 2002.
Competitive Energy Results
          Conectiv Energy contributed 19 cents per share to Pepco Holdings nine month earnings per share. This amount represents its contribution to earnings per share for August and September 2002.
          PES earned 4 cents per share during the 2002 nine month period compared to earnings of 8 cents during the corresponding period last year. The decrease in PES' earnings results primarily from higher congestion charges in its retail commodity business, reduced earnings from its power plants, and from a general slowdown in its energy efficiency construction business.
Other Non-Regulated
          PCI earned 20 cents per share during the 2002 nine month period compared to 12 cents per share during the corresponding period last year. This increase results from new energy related financial investments.
          Pepcom lost 3 cents per share during the nine month period compared to a 9-cent loss last year. This change primarily results from improved margins, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses, and the favorable impact of the termination of the requirement to amortize goodwill.
 
 
                                                                                                            # # # # # # # # # # # #




