FILE:POM/POM-8K-20031024194253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits

          This Settlement Agreement and Release ("") is entered into this 24th day of October, 2003, between and among Potomac Electric Power Company (""), Mirant Americas Energy Marketing, LP (""), and Mirant Corporation ("") (collectively, MAEM and Mirant are referred to as the "").           WHEREAS, on December 19, 2000, MAEM, formerly known as Southern Company Energy Marketing L.P., and Pepco executed and delivered a Transition Power Agreement (Maryland), (as amended by Amendment No.1 to Transition Power Agreement, dated October, 2001, the ""); and           WHEREAS, on December 19, 2000, MAEM and Pepco executed and delivered a Transition Power Agreement (District of Columbia), (as amended by Amendment No.1 to Transition Power Agreement, dated October, 2001, the "", and together with the Maryland TPA, the ""); and           WHEREAS, on December 19, 2000, Mirant executed and delivered a Guarantee Agreement under which Mirant, among other things, guaranteed the obligations of MAEM under the TPAs (the ""); and           WHEREAS, on July 14, 2003 and continuing into the morning of July 15, 2003, the Mirant Parties and certain of their affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas (the "") for relief under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code (the ""), Case No. 03-46590 (DML) (the ""); and           WHEREAS, the Mirant Parties have expressed a desire to reject the TPAs pursuant to Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code and Pepco has indicated that it will object to the rejection, and if rejection is allowed and the Mirant Parties are otherwise permitted to cease performance, it will assert claims in the Proceeding against the Mirant Parties and other Mirant affiliates; and           WHEREAS, Pepco and the Mirant Parties desire to amend the TPAs on the terms and conditions described herein and have MAEM assume, and not reject, the TPAs as so amended; and            WHEREAS, Pepco and the Mirant Parties desire to settle, on the terms and conditions described herein, certain claims that Pepco would have as a result of any proposed amendment, rejection or breach of the TPAs.           NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is herewith acknowledged, Pepco and the Mirant Parties hereby agree as follows:           1.          :           (a)         Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, MAEM and Pepco shall execute two counterparts of (i) an amendment to the Maryland TPA in the form annexed hereto as ; and (ii) an amendment to the District of Columbia TPA in the form annexed hereto as (collectively, the "") and shall deliver the same to Wayne M. Cross (the ""), White & Case LLP, 1155 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, as escrow agent, to be held in escrow pending the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth herein and released as provided herein. Notwithstanding any provision herein or in the Amendments, in no event shall the Amendments become effective unless and until the Effective Date (defined below) occurs. Prior to the Effective Date, the Mirant Parties shall continue to perform (or cause the performance of, as applicable) each of the TPAs in accordance with their respective terms.           (b)         Upon the occurrence of the Effective Date, the Amendments shall become effective and the Escrow Agent shall release the Amendments from escrow and deliver one fully executed original to each of Pepco and MAEM at the address listed below by overnight courier.           (c)         In the event that this Agreement is terminated as provided in , the Escrow Agent shall immediately return, by overnight courier with evidence of receipt requested, Pepco's executed counterpart of the Amendments to Pepco and MAEM's executed counterpart of the Amendments to MAEM.           2.           :           (a)        Pepco will have an allowed, prepetition general unsecured claim or claims, not subject to any offset or reduction for any reason, against each of the Mirant Parties in the Proceeding for (i) damages resulting from the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement and (ii) any and all claims with respect to any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement (except for normal and customary invoice reconciliations for the period between the commencement of the Proceeding and the date of this Agreement). Such allowed, prepetition general unsecured claim or claims against each of the Mirant Parties is in the liquidated sum of $105 million and is referred to herein as the "."           (b)        Pepco may (but is not required to) file separate proofs of claim simultaneously or otherwise pursue claims for (i) damages resulting from the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement and (ii) any and all claims with respect to any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement (except for normal and customary invoice reconciliations for the period between the commencement of the Proceeding and the date of this Agreement), against each of the Mirant Parties, each of the MAGI Parties (as defined below) and/or any other person or entity. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the aggregate value of all recoveries, distributions and funds received by Pepco, whether from Mirant, MAEM, or any of the MAGI Parties (as defined below) with respect to claims for (i) damages resulting from the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement and/or (ii) any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement (except for normal and customary invoice reconciliations for the period between the commencement of the Proceeding and the date of this Agreement), shall not exceed the $105 million of value set forth in above; that the foregoing limitation shall not apply to recoveries, distributions or funds received or sought for damages upon or in respect of any breach of this Agreement, any breach of the TPAs or the Guarantee Agreement after the date of this Agreement, or any breach of the Amendments after the Effective Date.           3.          : From and after the date of this Agreement, Pepco and the Mirant Parties shall each use their best efforts to obtain, on an expedited basis, approval of this Agreement by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas (the "") or, if the District Court has referred such approval to the Bankruptcy Court, by the Bankruptcy Court (the District Court or, in the event of such referral, the Bankruptcy Court, is referred to herein as the "") as well as authorization of the Mirant Partiesto assume the TPAs as modified by the Amendments under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code, and authorization that the Pepco Claim be allowed on a final basis against each of the Mirant Parties in the amount of $105 million.           4.                    a.          Each of the Mirant Parties represents and warrants that, under existing law as of the date of this Agreement, no approval of, or filing for approval with, or prior notice to, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("") is required in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Amendments or by this Agreement, or the execution, delivery or performance of the Amendments by any party thereto.           b.          Pepco and the Mirant Parties shall each support this Agreement in any communications, whether oral or written, as to the matters that are the subject of this Agreement with the Court, FERC, the Public Service Commission of Maryland, the Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia, the People's Counsel for the State of Maryland, the People's Counsel for the District of Columbia.           5.          :           a.          The "Effective Date" means and shall be the date as of which the Court enters an orders (i) approving this Agreement, authorizing assumption of the TPAs, as amended, and authorizing that the Pepco Claim be allowed, all as more particularly described in , and such order does not materially modify or amend the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Amendments (the "Approval Order"), and (ii) authorizing and approving the Make Whole Claim mechanism as more particularly described in , which orders shall be in substance reasonably satisfactory to Pepco and the Mirant Parties. Upon the occurrence of the Effective Date, the Escrow Agent shall distribute the Amendments as described in . Prior to the occurrence of the Effective Date, this Agreement may be terminated as provided in .           b.         In the event the Court's Approval Order is reversed or materially modified on appeal by a final, binding, then Pepco shall have an agreed allowed claim (the "Make Whole Claim") against the Mirant Parties.
Agreement
Pepco
MAEM
Mirant
Mirant Parties
Maryland TPA
District of Columbia TPA
TPAs
Guarantee Agreement
Bankruptcy Court
Bankruptcy Code
Proceeding
Amendment of the TPAs; Escrow
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Amendments
Escrow Agent
Section 9
Pepco's Claim
Pepco Claim
Section 2(a)
provided however
Court Approval
District Court
Court
Regulatory Bodies; Support of Agreement:
FERC
Conditions Precedent to the Effective Date
Section 3
Section 5(b)
Section 1
Section 9
Separate and apart from the Approval Order, upon execution of this Agreement, the parties shall seek and obtain an order granting and approving the Make Whole Claim as provided in this . The entry of such an order shall be a condition to the Effective Date.           c.         In the event the Approval Order is reversed or materially modified as provided in , the Mirant Parties (or either of them) shall nevertheless have the right to pursue rejection of the TPAs, and if such rejection is approved and the Mirant Parties are permitted to cease performance under the TPAs, (i) the effective date of rejection shall be October 31, 2003, and (ii) the Mirant Parties (or either of them) shall have the right to recover all amounts that would not have been paid to Pepco had the TPAs been rejected in fact and in the first instance on October 31, 2003. Further, Pepco shall have the right to contest only the accuracy of the calculation but otherwise shall have no right to object, offset, or reduce for any reason the amounts so recovered by the Mirant Parties (or either of them), provided however that Pepco shall have the right to offset any such claim or right to recover against the Make Whole Claim.           6.          : Pepco executes the following release in favor of the Mirant Parties, and their respective subsidiaries (except each MAGI Party), affiliates (except each MAGI Party, as defined below), shareholders, officers, directors and employees (collectively, the ""):           a.          Effective as of the Effective Date and for and in consideration of the terms of this Agreement and except as provided in of this Agreement, Pepco, acting for itself, its predecessors, assigns, agents, attorneys, successors, parents, subsidiaries, and affiliates, does hereby compromise, settle and fully release and forever discharge the Mirant Releasees of and from any and all claims, demands, actions, or causes of action which Pepco had, or may now, or may in the future have, own, or hold for relief, compensation, damages, losses, or remedy of any kind or character, relating to or arising from any of the following: (i) the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement, (ii) any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement (except for normal and customary invoice reconciliations for the period between the commencement of the Proceeding and the date of this Agreement), and (iii) $3,417,090 claimed to be due from the Mirant Parties in respect of the July 2003 invoice relating to the period of July 1 to July 14, 2003 and described on annexed hereto (collectively, and except as otherwise provided in and , the "").           b.           only releases the specific claims, demands, actions, and causes of action described therein, and does not release any other claim, demand, action or cause of action against the Mirant Releasees or any other person or entity, including without limitation the direct and indirect subsidiaries of Mirant listed on annexed hereto (such entities and their predecessors and successors being referred to herein as the ""). By way of example and for the avoidance of doubt, the "" shall not include, without limiting the generality of the first sentence of this : (i) any claims under the Ohio Edison back to back arrangement, (ii) any claims under the Panda-Brandywine, L.P. back to back arrangement (other than claims in respect of the July 2003 invoice relating to the period of July 1 to July 14, 2003 and described on including, without limitation, claims relating to the existing billing dispute between Pepco and Panda-Brandywine, L.P., (iii) any claims which Pepco may have, own, or hold under or for breach of any provision of this Agreement or the Amendments, or for any breach of the TPAs or the Guarantee Agreement after the date of this Agreement, or (iv) any claims against the MAGI Parties for (A) damages resulting from the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement or (B) any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement; that no claim made by Pepco of the type described in clause (A) or (B) of this shall exceed the amount of $105 million, and the aggregate recovery amount for all such claims together with any recovery with respect to the Pepco Claim shall not exceed $105 million as more particularly described in . Nothing herein shall prejudice the right of any party, including, without limitation, the Mirant Parties and the MAGI Parties to object to, or to contest, whether as to liability, damages, the facts or law, or otherwise, any claim Pepco asserts against the MAGI Parties which is described in this .           c/          Pepco states and warrants that it is the sole owner of the Released Claims Against Mirant, that such Released Claims Against Mirant have not been assigned, encumbered or transferred, and that Pepco has unqualified authority, by the signatory immediately below, to release the same.           d.          Pepco states and warrants that upon the Effective Date, this Agreement effects a full, complete and final settlement, satisfaction and extinguishment of the Released Claims Against Mirant.           e.          In entering into and executing this Agreement, Pepco has not relied upon any statement or representation pertaining to this matter made by any representative, agent or employee of the Mirant Releasees, or any person, firm, organization or corporation hereby released, or by any person or persons representing them that is not set forth herein; but Pepco has relied upon attorneys of its own independent choosing and has determined this settlement is in its best interest.           f.          Relying on and assuming the accuracy of the representation and warranty made by the Mirant Parties in , Pepco states and warrants that it has full power to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Pepco and constitutes the valid and binding obligation of Pepco; and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Pepco requires no consent, approval or authorization by or filing with any third party or governmental authority (other than any of the foregoing which has been obtained or made) and does not and will not (with notice, the passage of time or both) contravene or violate any agreement or commitment binding upon Pepco or any provision of applicable law.           7.          : The Mirant Parties execute the following release in favor of Pepco and its subsidiaries, affiliates, shareholders, officers, directors and employees (collectively, the ""):           a.         Effective as of the Effective Date and for and in consideration of the terms of this Agreement, each of the Mirant Parties, acting for themselves and each of their respective predecessors, assigns, agents, attorneys, successors, parents (except each MAGI Party), subsidiaries (except each MAGI Party), and affiliates (except each MAGI Party)does hereby compromise, settle and fully release and forever discharge the Pepco Releasees of and from any and all claims, demands, actions, or causes of action which the Mirant Parties had, or may now, or may in the future have, own, or hold for relief, compensation, damages, losses, or remedy of any kind or character, relating to or arising from any of the following: (i) the amendment of the TPAs as provided in this Agreement, (ii) any failure to perform, including any failure to pay amounts due, under the TPAs on or before the date of this Agreement (except for normal and customary invoice reconciliations for the period between the commencement of the Proceeding and the date of this Agreement), (iii) the $3,417,090 claimed to be due from the Mirant Parties in respect of the July 2003 invoice relating to the period of July 1 to July 14, 2003 and described on annexed hereto, and (iv) any payments received by Pepco prior to the date of this Agreement under or in respect of the TPAs , including without limitation any avoidance or recovery actions under Sections 544, 545, 547, 548, 549, 550, 551 and/or 553 of the Bankruptcy Code, or under any similar state statutes (collectively, and except as otherwise provided in , the "").           b.           only releases the specific claims, demands, actions, and causes of action described therein, and does not release any other claim, demand, action or cause of action against the Pepco Releasees or any other person or entity. By way of example and for the avoidance of doubt, the "" shall not include, without limiting the generality of the first sentence of this : (i) any claims which the MirantPartiesmay have, own, or hold under or for breach of any provision of this Agreement or the Amendments, or for any breach of the TPAs after the date of this Agreement, (ii) any claims under the Ohio Edison back to back arrangement, (iii) any claims under the Panda-Brandywine, L.P. back to back arrangement (other than claims in respect of the July 2003 invoice relating to the period of July 1 to July 14, 2003 and described on claims relating to the existing billing dispute between Pepco and Panda-Brandywine, L.P.           c.          The Mirant Parties state and warrant that they are the sole owner of the Released Claims Against Pepco, that such Released Claims Against Pepco have not been assigned, encumbered or transferred, and that the Mirant Parties have unqualified authority, by the signatories immediately below, to release the same.           d.          The Mirant Parties state and warrant that upon the Effective Date this Agreement effects a full, complete and final settlement, satisfaction and extinguishment of the Released Claims Against Pepco.           e.          In entering into and executing this Agreement, the Mirant Parties have not relied upon any statement or representation pertaining to this matter made by any representative, agent or employee of the Pepco Releasees, or any person firm, organization or corporation hereby released, or by any person or persons representing them that is not set forth herein; but the Mirant Parties have relied upon attorneys of its own independent choosing and has determined this settlement is in its best interest.           f.          The Mirant Parties state and warrant that, except for Court approval as provided in of this Agreement, they have full power to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by or on behalf of the Mirant Parties and constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Mirant Parties; and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by or on behalf of the Mirant Parties require no consent, approval or authorization by or filing with any third party or governmental authority (other than any of the foregoing which has been obtained or made) and does not and will not (with notice, the passage of time or both) contravene or violate any agreement or commitment binding upon the Mirant Parties or any provision of applicable law.           8.          :           (a)         Except as provided herein, nothing in this Agreement compromises, discharges, waives or otherwise affects any legal position or argument of, or any claim, demand, action or cause of action against, the Mirant Releasees, the MAGI Parties, or the Pepco Releasees or any dispute between or among any of them, including without limitation any claim, legal position or argument, or dispute under the Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of June 7, 2000, as amended, between Pepco and Mirant, formerly known as Southern Energy, Inc. (including all related exhibits, schedules and documents), and all such legal positions, arguments, claims and disputes, and all rights and defenses in respect thereof, are expressly preserved.           (b)         Pepco and Mirant Parties agree that this Agreement and the discussions, negotiations and communications preceding execution of this Agreement have been entered into for settlement purposes only and are not admissible in the Proceeding or any litigation related to the Proceeding, for any purpose, except to effectuate or otherwise enforce this Agreement or the Amendments.           9.                     (a)          Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement may be terminated (or shall terminate, in the case of clause (v) below)as follows:
Section 5
Section 5(b)
Release in Favor of the Mirant Parties
Mirant Releasees
Section 2
Exhibit C
Section 2
Section 6(b)
Released Claims Against Mirant
Section 6(a)
Exhibit D
MAGI Parties
Released Claims Against Mirant
Section 6(b)
Exhibit C)
provided however
Section 6(b)(iv)
Section 2(b)
Section 6(b)
Section 4
Release in Favor of Pepco
Pepco Releasees
Exhibit C
Section 7(b)
Released Claims Against Pepco
Section 7(a)
Released Claims Against Pepco
Section 7(b)
Exhibit C) including, without limitation,
Section 3
Surviving Claims; Stipulation
Termination; Effective Date of Rejection of TPAs:
          (b)          (b) If either Pepco or the Mirant Parties desire to terminate this Agreement under , the party so desiring such termination shall give written notice of such termination to each of the other parties to this Agreement.           (c)          In the event that this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to this , all obligations under this Agreement shall be terminated and of no further force or effect without further action by any party hereto and without liability of any party hereto to the others, that (i) the foregoing shall not relieve any party in breach of this Agreement at the time of such termination from liability in respect of such breach, and (ii) the following Sections shall survive termination of this Agreement: , , , ), , , , , , , , and . In addition, upon termination of this Agreement, no rights or obligations, nor any claims or defenses, of Pepco or the Mirant Parties existing prior to the execution of this Agreement will be prejudiced, compromised, discharged or otherwise affected in any way, and all shall exist as if this Agreement had never been executed.           (d)          If this Agreement is terminated under Pepco agrees that the effective date of any rejection of the TPAs shall be October 27, 2003, and if this Agreement is terminated under , Pepco agrees that the effective date of any rejection of the TPAs shall be October 31, 2003; that, in either case, the Mirant Parties file a motion to reject the TPAs with the Court within 10 business days of receipt or sending, as applicable, notice of termination. In all other circumstances, except as provided in , the effective date of any rejection of the TPAs following termination of this Agreement shall be such date as is determined in accordance with applicable law. For the avoidance of doubt, the effective date only applies if such rejection is approved and the Mirant Parties are permitted to cease performance of the TPAs.           10.                     b.          All disputes relating to or arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the District of Columbia, excluding its choice-of-law rules. The Court shall retain jurisdiction over the terms and application of this Agreement.           c.                     d.          This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the settlement and releases contemplated herein and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties with respect to settlement and releases.           e.          The releases effected hereby shall be limited to the claims expressly set forth herein.           IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Mirant Parties and Pepco have caused this Settlement } Agreement and Release to be signed by their respective duly authorized officers or representatives as of the date set forth above.
Section 9(a)
Section 9
provided
Section 1(c)
Section 5(b)
Section 5(c)
Section 8(a
Section 8(b)
Section 9(c)
Section 9(d)
Section 11
Section 12(a)
Section 12(b)
Section 12(c)
Section 12(d)
Section 9(a)(ii),
Section 9(a)(v) (but only if neither of the Mirant Parties is then in breach)
provided
Section 5(c)
: Pepco and the Mirant Parties agree that any press release as to this Agreement or the settlement effected hereby shall be made jointly by Pepco and the Mirant Parties, shall comply with their respective obligations under , and shall be in form and substance mutually agreeable to Pepco and the Mirant Parties.           11.                    (a)          In addition to any other rights and remedies the Mirant Releasees may have at law or by agreement, Pepco shall hold harmless and indemnify the Mirant Releasees from and against, and shall compensate and reimburse the Mirant Releasees on demand for, any and all loss, damage, injury, claim, demand, settlement, judgment, award, fine, penalty, fee (including any reasonable legal fee, reasonable expert fee, reasonable accounting fee or reasonable advisory fee), charge, cost (including any reasonable cost of investigation) and/or expense, which is suffered or incurred by any of the Mirant Releasees or to which any of the Mirant Releasees may otherwise become subject at any time and which arises directly from or directly as a result of, (i) the breach of any representation or warranty made by Pepco in this Agreement, or (ii) the breach of any covenant or agreement of Pepco contained in this Agreement.           (b)          In addition to any other rights and remedies the Pepco Releasees may have at law or by agreement, Mirant shall hold harmless and indemnify the Pepco Releasees from and against, and shall compensate and reimburse the Pepco Releasees on demand for, any and all loss, damage, injury, claim, demand, settlement, judgment, award, fine, penalty, fee (including any reasonable legal fee, reasonable expert fee, reasonable accounting fee or reasonable advisory fee), charge, cost (including any reasonable cost of investigation), and/or expense which is suffered or incurred by any of the Pepco Releasees or to which any of the Pepco Releasees may otherwise become subject at any time and which arises directly from or directly as a result of: (i) the breach of any representation or warranty made by the Mirant Parties in this Agreement, or (ii) the breach of any covenant or agreement of the Mirant Parties contained in this Agreement or, after the Effective Date, in the TPAs as amended by the Amendments.           12.          :           a.          This Agreement may be amended, assigned, modified or supplemented only by written agreement executed by the Mirant Parties and Pepco.
Piblic Statements
Section 4
Indemnification:
Miscellaneous
Except as expressly provided herein, this Agreement shall not confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 



