FILE:POM/POM-8K-20080508163338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K                  
 
 
 
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 8, 2008, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its first quarter 2008 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported first quarter 2008 consolidated earnings of $99.2 million, or 49 cents per share, compared to $51.6 million, or 27 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2007.  There were no special items in the first quarter of 2008 or the first quarter of 2007.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the first quarter of 2008 was 200.7 million compared to 192.3 million for the first quarter of 2007.
 
The earnings increase for the first quarter of 2008 as compared to the 2007 quarter was driven by improved performance across the businesses.  Higher Power Delivery earnings resulted from the impact of the Maryland distribution base rate orders issued in June 2007 and the District of Columbia base rate order issued in January 2008, higher network transmission revenue, and a favorable income tax adjustment, partially offset by lower weather related kWh sales and higher operation and maintenance expenses.  Conectiv Energy realized higher earnings primarily due to opportunities resulting from its generating units operating flexibility and dual-fuel capability, firm natural gas transportation and storage positions, and fuel hedges, coupled with increasing fuel prices and volatility.  Higher capacity prices and new default supply contracts with utilities in the New England market also contributed to the increase in earnings.  Higher Pepco Energy Services earnings were due to more favorable congestion costs, higher capacity prices, and higher electric delivery volumes.
 
Our strong performance this quarter demonstrates the strategic value of our integrated portfolio of businesses as we benefited from the operating flexibility of our generating fleet, our constructive regulatory outcomes, and the continued strength of our retail business, said Dennis R. Wraase, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Conectiv Energy had an outstanding quarter.  Our generating assets, natural gas storage, and pipeline capacity enabled us to capitalize on short-term power and fuel price volatility, driving operating income up 121% over the first quarter of last year.  He added, In addition to seeing the positive impacts of our distribution rate cases in Power Deliverys results, our Blueprint for the Future initiative recently reached another important milestone with the approval of our demand response programs in Maryland.  At Pepco Energy Services, we saw 14% electric sales growth reflecting our continued expansion into new markets.  For the remainder of 2008, we will remain focused on executing our business plan and building on our strong first quarter results.
 
1
(more)
 
 
 
First-Quarter Highlights
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
 
2
(more)
 
 
 
a Bill Stabilization Adjustment mechanism, which decouples revenues from kilowatt-hour sales, and opened a Phase II proceeding to address the DCPSCs authority to implement such a mechanism.
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2008 and 2007 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available at www.pepcoholdings.com/investors.
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Friday, May 9 at 10 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-383-7998 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 10330065.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-597-5329, using the same pass code, 10330065.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 53991432.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 53991432.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/inves
tors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Washington, D.C., delivers electricity and natural gas to about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey, through its subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric.  PHI also provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy and retail energy products and services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI:
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to further understand the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
3
(more)
 
 
 
4
(more)
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
5
(more)
 
 
 
6
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
7
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
8
(more)
 
 
 
9
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
10
(more)
 
 
 
11
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
12
(more)
 
 
 
Notes:
13
# # # # #
 
 
 




