FILE:POM/POM-8K-20090507163115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
      On May 7, 2009, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its first quarter 2009 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported first quarter 2009 consolidated earnings of $45 million, or 21 cents per share, compared to $99 million, or 49 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2008.  Excluding a special item (as described below), earnings for the first quarter of 2009 would have been $37 million, or 17 cents per share.  There were no special items in the first quarter of 2008.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the first quarter of 2009 was 219 million compared to 201 million for the first quarter of 2008.
 
The earnings decrease for the first quarter of 2009 as compared to the 2008 quarter was driven by lower Conectiv Energy earnings and higher Power Delivery interest expense and operation and maintenance expense.  The higher operation and maintenance expense at Power Delivery was primarily due to increased pension expense, and the higher interest expense was primarily due to the debt financing completed in the fall of 2008.  The lower Conectiv Energy earnings were due to significantly fewer opportunities to benefit from generating unit operating flexibility and dual-fuel capability and fewer remarketing activities around firm natural gas transportation and storage positions, due to less favorable energy prices and less price volatility than was experienced during the winter of 2008.  Lower generation output and reduced spark spreads were also factors.
 
As we expected, our results for the first quarter reflect the impact of the challenging power markets and continued recessionary pressures, said Joseph M. Rigby, President and Chief Executive Officer.  However, during the quarter we made progress on a number of key initiatives.  We completed an innovative credit arrangement that not only returned nearly $300 million of collateral to Pepco Energy Services, but also insulated a considerable portion of our retail energy supply business from the impact of further power price decreases.  We made significant progress on our Blueprint for the Future initiative with the selection of the advanced metering technology, positioning us to begin meter deployment in Delaware later this year.  We also filed the first of four distribution rate cases planned for this year with Delmarva Powers recent filing in Maryland.
1
 
 
 
First-Quarter Highlights
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
2
 
 
 
proceeds be shared with customers through a one-time billing credit.  If the settlement is approved by the MPSC, Pepco would record a pre-tax gain in the range of $15 million to $25 million when the MPSC issues its final order approving the settlement.  A hearing is scheduled for May 14, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
3
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2009 and 2008 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Special Item
 
         Management believes the special item shown below is not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Item
 
4
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Friday, May 8 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-713-8307 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 38149987.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-597-5307, using the same pass code, 38149987.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 25130052.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 25130052.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Washington, D.C., delivers electricity and natural gas to about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey, through its subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric.  PHI also provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy and retail energy products and services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI:
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
5
 
 
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
6
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
Notes:
7
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Notes:
8
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
 




