FILE:POM/POM-8K-20090302082802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
Item 2.02         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 2, 2009, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its full year and fourth quarter 2008 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported full year 2008 consolidated earnings of $300 million, or $1.47 per share, compared to $334 million, or $1.72 per share, in 2007.  Excluding special items (as described below), earnings for the full year 2008 would have been $393 million, or $1.93 per share, compared to $296 million, or $1.53 per share, in 2007.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding in 2008 was 204 million compared to 194 million in 2007.
 
The earnings increase, excluding special items, for the full year 2008 as compared to the prior year was driven primarily by the improved performance of both Power Delivery and Conectiv Energy.  Higher Power Delivery earnings were due to the impact of the distribution base rate orders in Maryland and the District of Columbia as well as higher transmission rates, partially offset by lower weather-related kWh sales.
 
Conectiv Energy realized higher earnings as it capitalized on opportunities resulting from its generating units operating flexibility and dual-fuel capability and its firm natural gas transportation and storage positions, coupled with short-term power and fuel price volatility.  Higher capacity prices and mark-to-market gains related to economic fuel and power hedges also contributed to the increase in earnings, while a reduction in the value of oil inventory due to a lower of cost or market adjustment and lower revenue from sales of emissions allowances were partially offsetting factors.  The increase in Pepco Energy Services earnings was primarily due to higher volumes in the retail gas supply business.  Favorable income tax adjustments impacted each of the operating businesses.
 
 
 
The year 2008 marks an outstanding year of financial performance for our operating businesses, said Dennis R. Wraase, Chairman of the Board.  In Power Delivery, we set out to earn a fair return on our infrastructure investments, control costs and start the process of decoupling revenue from kilowatt hour sales.  Our results for the year reflect our achievements in these areas as well as the performance of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services, each of which continued its track record of posting strong results.
 
Wraase noted last weeks announcement of his upcoming retirement and the Boards election of Joseph M. Rigby as President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 1. I am proud of the progress we have made over the past several years.  Pepco Holdings is well positioned to meet the challenges ahead and create value for our customers and shareholders.  Joe and I have worked closely over the past six years and I am very confident in his ability to lead this organization, Wraase added.
 
While we expect to face many challenges in 2009, we are optimistic about longer term growth, said Rigby.  In 2008, we reached key milestones for several significant projects.  Incentive rates were approved for the Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway transmission project, the deployment of advanced metering technology in Delaware was approved under our Blueprint for the Future program, and construction of Conectiv Energys two new generating units is proceeding as scheduled.  The $1 billion of financing we completed in the fourth quarter positions us to continue the implementation of our growth strategy in 2009.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2008, consolidated earnings were $67 million, or 32 cents per share, compared to $57 million, or 29 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007.  There were no special items in either period.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2008 was 211 million compared to 197 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
The increase in earnings for the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 was caused by higher Power Delivery earnings resulting from the impact of the District of Columbia distribution base rate order for Pepco issued in January 2008, lower operation and maintenance expenses, and higher transmission rates.  Conectiv Energys earnings decreased primarily due to lower generation output, lower spark spreads, and a lower of cost or market adjustment to oil inventory.  At Pepco Energy Services, higher capacity-related charges led to lower earnings.  Favorable income tax adjustments impacted each of the operating businesses.
 
Full Year Highlights
 
Regulatory
 
 
 
 
recovery remain to be determined, the companies expect that proceeds from PJMs capacity auctions will offset all or part of the costs of the programs, with any balance being recovered through a previously approved demand-side management surcharge.
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
decreased by 10% in 2008, compared to 2007.  Weather adjusted electric sales were 49,705 GWhs in 2008, compared to 49,890 in 2007 (excluding the Virginia retail electric distribution assets sold in Jan. 2008).
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2008 and 2007 can be found in the schedules that follow.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
 
 
Special Items
 
Management believes the special items shown below are not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results on Tuesday, March 3 at 10:00 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-800-901-5213 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 72399046.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-786-2962, using the same pass code, 72399046.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 11280875.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 11280875.  An audio archive will be available at PHIs Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at .
Note:
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Washington, D.C., delivers electricity and natural gas to about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, and New Jersey, through its subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric.  PHI also provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy and retail energy products and services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI:
 
 
: Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain managements beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the companys control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and capital and credit market conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to further understand the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
- (continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
POWER DELIVERY SALES AND REVENUES
15
 
 
WEATHER DATA - CONSOLIDATED ELECTRIC SERVICE TERRITORY
 
CONECTIV ENERGY
 
Notes:
16
 
 
CONECTIV ENERGY - (continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




