FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100930163640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
 Pepco Holdings, Inc. (the Company) has entered into a Purchase Agreement, dated September 27, 2010 (the Purchase Agreement), with Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., for themselves and as representatives of the underwriters named in Schedule A of the Purchase Agreement, for the offer and sale of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the Notes) in an underwritten offering registered on a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-169477), which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on September 20, 2010.  The Purchase Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1 and the form of Notes is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1.  The Notes are initially being offered to the public at a price of 99.819% of the principal amount.  At the closing of the offering, which is scheduled to occur on October 1, 2010, the Company will realize, after deduction of the underwriters discount of 0.600% of the principal amount and before deduction of offering expenses, net proceeds of approximately $248,047,500.  The Company intends to use all of the net proceeds to repay existing indebtedness.  The Notes will be issued under the Indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Bank of New York), as trustee.
   
 The legality opinion of Kirk J. Emge, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, relating to the issuance of the Notes is filed herewith as Exhibit 5.1.
   
 Some of the underwriters or their affiliates have provided investment or commercial banking services to the Company and its affiliates, including as an underwriter of their securities, in the past and are likely to do so in the future.  They receive customary fees and commissions for these services.
   
Item 9.01                   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  September 27, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i 
 
 
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 27, 2010
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
RBS Securities Inc.
600 Steamboat Road
Greenwich, Connecticut 06830
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
1 Liberty Plaza, 25 Floor
th
165 Broadway
New York, New York 10006
 
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ) confirms its agreement (the ) with Banc of America Securities LLC (), RBS Securities Inc. () and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. () and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the , which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for wh om BofA Merrill, RBS and Scotia are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the ), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in Schedule A hereto of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Companys 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the ).
Company
Agreement
BofA Merrill
RBS
Scotia
Underwriters
Representatives
Securities
 
The Securities are to be issued under an indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), trustee (the ), as supplemented by an officers certificate (the ), to be dated the Closing Time (as hereinafter defined in Section 2(b)), establishing the terms of the Securities, such indenture, as so supplemented, being hereinafter called the .
Trustee
Officers Certificate
Indenture
 
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities promptly after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
 
On September 20, 2010, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-169477), for the registration of securities, including the Securities, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and the offer and
Commission
1933 Act
 
 
 
 
sale thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act (the ), and for the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the ).
1933 Act Regulations
1939 Act
 
When used in this Agreement, the following terms have the specified meanings:
 
 means 4:15 P.M. (Eastern time), on September 27, 2010.
Applicable Time
 
 means the base prospectus relating to the Securities filed as part of the Registration Statement, in the form in which it has been most recently filed with the Commission prior to the date of this Agreement.
Base Prospectus
 
 means, collectively, (i) the Pricing Prospectus, (ii) the Term Sheet and (iii) any other Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Schedule B.
Disclosure Package
 
 means the date and time of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement for purposes of paragraph (f)(2) of Rule 430B of the 1933 Act Regulations, as applied to the Underwriters.
Effective Time
 
 means (i) the Term Sheet and (ii) any other issuer free writing prospectus (as defined by Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ()) with respect to the Securities.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Rule 433
 
 means either (i)  the Base Prospectus or (ii) the Base Prospectus as supplemented by a preliminary prospectus supplement provided by the Company to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, in either case as filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations ().
Preliminary Prospectus
Rule 424(b)
 
 means the Preliminary Prospectus in the form most recently provided to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities prior to the Applicable Time.
Pricing Prospectus
 
 means the Base Prospectus as supplemented by the final prospectus supplement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities, as filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b).
Prospectus
 
 means, as of any particular time, the Companys registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-169477), referred to above, including (a) any amendments thereto at such time, (b) the exhibits and schedules thereto at such time and (c) any prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) that, in accordance with Rule 430B of the 1933 Act Regulations () is deemed to be a part thereof.
Registration Statement
Rule 430B
 
 means the term sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 3(a) of this Agreement.
Term Sheet
 
The foregoing definitions are subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a)           all references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or to any of the financial statements, schedules or other information that is contained, included or stated (or other words of like import) therein shall be deemed to include the information contained in documents filed with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), that are incorporated, or deemed incorporated, therein by reference  pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act, to the extent such information has not been superseded or modified in accordance with Rule 412 under the 1933 Act ( as qualified by Rule 430B(g) of
1934 Act
 
 
2
 
the 1933 Act Regulations) and (i)  in the case of references to the Registration Statement are filed with the Commission at or prior to the Effective Time and (ii) in the case of references to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus are filed with the Commission at or prior to the date thereof;
 
(b)           all references in this Agreement to an amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to include any document filed under the 1934 Act subsequent to the date thereof that is deemed incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act;
 
(c)           all references in this Agreement to an amendment or supplement to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to include any document filed under the 1934 Act subsequent to the date thereof that is deemed incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act; and
 
(d)           all references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ().
EDGAR
 
SECTION 1.     
 
.
Representations and Warranties
 
(a)
     
The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter on the date of this Agreement, at the Applicable Time and at the Closing Time as follows:
Representations and Warranties of  the Company.  
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
(b)
   
.  Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officers Certificates
 
SECTION 2.     
 
.
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing; Covenants of the Underwriters
 
(a)          
 
.  On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 99.219% of the principal amount thereof, the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Sec tion 10 hereof.
Securities
 
 
10
 
(b)
 
.  Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Covington & Burling LLP at 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20004, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called ).
Payment
Closing Time
 
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them.  It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized RBS, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and to make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities which it has agreed to purchase.  Any or all of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
 
(c)
 
.  The Securities shall be in such denominations ($1,000 or integral multiples thereof) and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time.  The Securities will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in Washington D.C. not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
 
(d)
 
  In lieu of the delivery to the Underwriters of certificates representing the Securities at the Closing Time, as contemplated above, the Company, with the approval of the Representatives, may deliver one or more global Securities to a custodian for The Depository Trust Company (), to be held by DTC initially for the accounts of the several Underwriters.
Delivery of Global Securities.
DTC
 
(e)
 
.  Promptly after the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters, the Representatives shall deliver to the Company a notice in writing confirming the completion of the distribution (the ).
Notice of Completion
Notice of Completion
 
(f)
 
Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it has not made and, without the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives, will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute a free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ()) that the Company would be required to file with the Commission under Rule 433, except the Term Sheet to be prepared and filed in accordance with Section 3(a).
Use of Free Writing Prospectuses.  
Rule 405
 
SECTION 3.     
 
Covenants of the Company.
 
(a)
 
The Company will prepare a term sheet (the ), containing solely a description of the final terms of the Securities and the offering thereof, in the form attached as Schedule C hereto, and after affording the Representatives the opportunity to comment thereon, file the Term Sheet with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433(d) within the time required by such Rule.
Preparation and Filing of Term Sheet.  
Term Sheet
 
(b)
 
.  The Company will prepare the Prospectus and, after affording the Representatives the opportunity to comment thereon, file the Prospectus with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the Commissions close of business on the second business day following the execution and delivery of this Agreement.
Preparation and Filing of the Prospectus
 
 
11
 
(c)
   
.  The Company will not amend the Registration Statement, or amend or supplement the Prospectus or the Term Sheet, prior to the delivery of the Notice of Completion without providing notice to the Representatives at least 24 hours, or such shorter period as is reasonably required by the circumstances, prior to the filing thereof with the Commission.  Except in the case of any such amendment or supplement to be made by the filing under the 1934 Act of a document that will be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus that would be made by the Company irrespective of the offer a nd sale of the Securities, the Company will not effect such amendment or supplement without the consent of the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  Neither the consent of the Representatives, nor the delivery of any such amendment or supplement by any Underwriter, shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Review of Amendments and Supplements
 
Prior to the delivery of the Notice of Completion, the Company will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm such notice in writing, when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement shall have been filed or shall become effective and when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed.
 
(d)
   
.  Other than any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Schedule B and the Term Sheet to be prepared and filed in accordance with Section 3(a), the Company has not made and, without the consent of the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute a free writing prospectus as defined by Rule 405, including an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Free Writing Prospectuses
 
(e)
   
.  The Company will notify the Representatives of (i) the receipt of any comments from the Commission with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus, including any request by the Commission for any amendment, supplement or additional information with respect thereto, (ii) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initi ation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose.  The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, in the event of any stop order, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as possible.
Notification of Commission Comments and Orders, Etc
 
(f)
   
.  The Company will deliver to each of the Representatives and to counsel for the Underwriters, upon request and without charge, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including, in each case, all exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference).  Such copies of the Registration Statement and amendments thereto so furnished to the Representatives will be identical to the copies thereof filed electronically with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR (except that the registration fee table may be deleted from the cover thereof), except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
(g)        
 
.  The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of any Preliminary Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies by the Underwriters for purposes of the offer and sale of the Securities in a manner consistent with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus (or, in lieu thereof, the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (and any supplements thereto and amendments thereof) as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  Such copies of the Prospectus (and supplements thereto and amendments thereof) so furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the copies thereof filed electronically with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
 
12
 
(except that the registration fee table may be deleted from the cover thereof), except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
(h)
   
.  (i)  Until the Notice of Completion has been delivered, the Company will file all reports and other documents that it is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations and will otherwise comply with the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and the Prospectus.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
(ii)           The Company will notify the Representatives promptly if, prior to the delivery of the Notice of Completion, (A) any filing is made by the Company of information relating to the offering of the Securities with any securities exchange or any other regulatory body in the United States or any other jurisdiction or (B) any material change occurs in or affecting the business, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise that (I) is not disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or (II) makes any statement in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus false or misleading.
 
(iii)           Upon any notification pursuant to clause (ii)(B) above, or if prior to delivery of the Notice of Completion any event shall occur as a result of which it is necessary, in the reasonable judgment of the Company or of the Representatives, (A) to amend the Registration Statement in order that it shall not, as of the Effective Time, include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading or otherwise to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations or (B) to amend the Prospectus in order that it shall not, as of the time it (or, in lieu thereof, the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is delivered to purchasers, contain any untrue state ment of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at such time, not misleading or otherwise to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(c), such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to each Underwriter such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as such Underwriter may reasonably request.
 
(i)          
 
.  The Company will use its best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to take such action, if any, as may be required to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect as long as required for the distribution of the Securities; , , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general c onsent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.  The Company will notify the Representatives of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent any such suspension and, in the event of any such suspension, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as possible.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
however
 
(j)          
 
.  The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder.
Rule 158
 
 
13
 
(k)        
 
.  The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the 1933 Act Regulations and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations.
Filing Fees
 
(l)        
 
.  The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under Use of Proceeds.
Use of Proceeds
 
(m)
  
.  The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the 1933 Act relating to debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning at the date of this Agreement and ending at the later of the Closing Time or the date of receipt by the Company of a Notice of Completion.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
 
SECTION 4.     
 
Payment of Expenses.
 
(a)     
 
.  The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii)  the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificate or certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Companys counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(i) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees (not to exceed $5,000) and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of any Blue Sky survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each Preliminary Prospectus, Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of any Blue Sky survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of its counsel, and (ix) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities.
Expenses Payable by the Company
 
(b)     
 
.  Except as provided in subsection (a)(v) above and subsection (c) below, the Underwriters will pay all of their out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Expenses Payable by the Underwriters
 
(c)     
 
.  If this Agreement is terminated by the Underwriters in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Expenses Upon Termination
 
SECTION 5.     
 
Conditions of Underwriters Obligations; Termination of Agreement.
 
(a)     
 
.  The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy, as of the date of this Agreement, as of the Applicable Time and as of the Closing Time, of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof and in all certificates of officers of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company
Conditions
 
 
14
 
of its covenants and other obligations hereunder to be performed at or prior to the Closing Time, and to the following further conditions:
 
 
 
15
 
 
(b)        
 
.  If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party, except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
 
SECTION 6.     
 
.
Indemnification
 
(a)
 
.  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter, within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters
 
 
16
 
 
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
 
(b)          
 
.  Each Underwriter severally (and not jointly) agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Preliminary Pros pectus, Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
(c)
   
.  Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement.  In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a), counsel to the indemnified parties sha ll be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b), counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company.  An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party.  In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification could be sought under this Section 6 or contribution could be sought under Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified
Actions against Parties; Notification
provided
however
 
 
17
 
party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
 
SECTION 7.      
 
.
Contribution
 
If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover.
 
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by any Underwriters and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7.  The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or allege d untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
 
18
 
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.  The Underwriters respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several (and not joint) in proportion to the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto.
 
SECTION 8.     
 
.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
 
All of the respective representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the several Underwriters contained in this Agreement, or in certificates of officers of the Company delivered pursuant to this Agreement, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person of any Underwriter , or by or on behalf of the Company, or any director, officer or controlling person of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Securities.
 
SECTION 9.     
 
.
Termination of Agreement
 
(a)        
 
.  The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been (A) since the date of the latest audited balance sheet included in the Disclosure Package and except as disclosed therein or (B) since the Applicable Time, any Material Adverse Change, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or in the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development invol ving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to offer, sell or deliver the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the NYSE Alternext U.S. or in the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by either of such exchanges or Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. with respect to such markets or by order of the Commission or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
 
(b)        
 
.  If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof; and provided, further, that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
 
SECTION 10.     
 
.
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
 
If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are then obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the ), the non-defaulting Underwriters shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters approved by the Company, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and
Defaulted Securities
 
 
19
 
upon the terms herein set forth.  If, however, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
 
No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
 
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements.  As used in this Agreement, the term Underwriter includes any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10.
 
SECTION 11.     
 
.
Notices
 
All notices, requests and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if received by mail or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to the Representatives at Banc of America Securities LLC, One Bryant Park, NY1-100-18-03, New York, New York 10036, attention of High Grade Transaction Management/Legal, Fax No.:  (646) 855-5958, RBS Securities Inc., 600 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, Connecticut 06901, attention of Debt Capital Markets Syndicate, Fax No.: (203) 873-4534, and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., 1 Liberty Plaza, 25th Floor, 165 Broadway, New York, New York 10006, attention of Debt Capital Markets, Fax No.: (212) 225-6550; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 701 Ninth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20068, attention of Treasurer.
 
SECTION 12.     
 
.
Parties in Interest
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors.  Nothing expressed in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.  This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs a nd legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation.  No purchaser of Securities from the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
 
 
20
 
SECTION 13.     
 
.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arms-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and (e) no Underwriter has provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
 
SECTION 14.     
 
.
Governing Law and Time
 
Specified times of day refer to New York City time.
This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.  
 
SECTION 15.     
 
.
Counterparts
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same agreement.
 
SECTION 16.     
 
.
Entire Agreement
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 17.     
 
.
Effect of Headings
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
 
21
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For themselves and as Representatives of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto.
 
 
 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.           Term Sheet attached as Schedule C hereto
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-169477
September 27, 2010
 
* A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization.  Each security rating agency has its own methodology for assigning ratings, and, accordingly, each rating should be considered independently of all other ratings.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a preliminary prospectus supplement) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322, RBS Securities Inc. at 1-866-884-2071 or Scotia Capital (US A) Inc. toll free at 1-800-372-3930.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atlantic City Electric Company
 
Delmarva Power & Light Company
 
Conectiv, LLC
 
Potomac Electric Power Company
 
Pepco Energy Services, Inc.
 
Potomac Capital Investment Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
October 1, 2010
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
RBS Securities Inc.
600 Steamboat Road
Greenwich, Connecticut 06830
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
1 Liberty Plaza, 25 Floor
th
165 Broadway
New York, New York 10006
 
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I am Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pepco Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and have acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the Securities) pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated September 27, 2010, among the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., for themselves and as representatives of the other underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the Purchase Agreement).  The Securities will be issued under an indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee (the Trustee), as amended and supplemented and as to be further supplemented by an Officers Certificate dated the date hereof (the Officers Certificate)(such Indenture, as so amended and supplemented, the Indenture).  This opinion is being delivered to you in accordance with Section 5(a)(ii) of the Purchase Agreement.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein have the respective meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement.
 
In connection with rendering the opinions set forth herein, I, or my representatives, have reviewed:
 
(i)  the Purchase Agreement;
 
(ii) the Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-169477, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on September 20, 2010 (the Registration Statement), registering, , the Securities for sale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the 1933 Act);
inter alia
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 2
 
(iii) the preliminary prospectus, consisting of the prospectus, dated September 20, 2010 (the Base Prospectus), as supplemented by a preliminary prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on September 27, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act (the Pricing Prospectus);
 
(iv) the term sheet, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on September 27, 2010, pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act (the Term Sheet and together with the Pricing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package);
 
(v) the final prospectus, consisting of the Base Prospectus, as supplemented by a final prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on September 28, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act (the Prospectus);
 
(vi) the Indenture;
 
(vii) the Officers Certificate; and
 
(viii) a facsimile copy of the Securities furnished by the Trustee.
 
I, or my representatives, also have examined or caused to be examined originals, or copies that have been certified or otherwise identified to my or their satisfaction as being true copies, of such other instruments, certificates and other documents or records as I or they have deemed necessary or appropriate to enable me to render the opinions set forth below.  In my or my representatives review and examination, I or they have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me or them as originals, and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me or them as copies.
 
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the reservations and exceptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that:
 
1.           The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
2.           The Company has corporate power and authority to own or lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement.
 
3.           The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
4.           Each Designated Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is an existing corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus; and each Designated Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 3
 
other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable; the capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from any liens or encumbrances; and to the best of my knowledge the capital stock of each other subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from any liens or encumbrances.
 
5.           The Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
6.           The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
7.           The Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company, and when the Securities have been (A) authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under the Indenture and (B) issued and delivered by the Company against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in the Purchase Agreement, the Securities will constitute valid securities within the meaning of Section 8-110(a)(1) of the Delaware Uniform Commercial Code.
 
8.           The Registration Statement is effective under the 1933 Act, and, to the best of my knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under Section 8(d) of the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted by the Commission or are pending or threatened by the Commission.  The Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus have been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act and the Term Sheet has been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 433(b) under the 1933 Act.
 
9.           The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, including the notes thereto, the financial schedules and the other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.01 to the Registration Statement, as to which I express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
 
10.           The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and the Purchase Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance with the terms thereof by the Company will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default or Repayment Event under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company under, (i) any statute, any rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or any of their properties that in my experience customarily applies to transactions of the type contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, (ii)& #160;any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any such subsidiary is a party or by which the Company or any such subsidiary is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any such subsidiary is subject, or (iii) the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any such subsidiary, except, in the cases of clauses (i) and (ii) above, for any such breach, violation, default,
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 4
 
Repayment Event or lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company has full corporate power and authority to authorize, issue and sell the Securities as contemplated by the Purchase Agreement.
 
11.           Except as disclosed in the Prospectus, there is not pending or, to the best of my knowledge, threatened any action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or to which the property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Purchase Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder.
 
12.           No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement in connection with the offering, issuance, sale or delivery of the Securities by the Company, except such as have already been obtained or such as may be required under state securities laws, and the Company has complied, in all material respects, with all terms and conditions contained in all such consents, approvals, authorizations and orders as have been obtained.
 
I am not passing upon and do not assume responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and make no representations that I have independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements, except insofar as such statements refer specifically to me.  However, based on my or my representatives examination of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, on my general familiarity with the affairs of the Company and on my or my representatives participation in conferences with officials and other representatives of, and other counsel for, the Company, with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent accountants of the Company, and with your representatives and y our counsel, I do not believe that (a) the Registration Statement, on the date of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement as provided in Rule 430B(f)(2) under the 1933 Act, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus, as of its date contained, or as of the date hereof contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The foregoing statement is subject to the qualification that I am not expressing any opinio n or belief on the financial statements, including the notes thereto, the financial schedules and the other financial data included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.01 to the Registration Statement.
 
I am a member of the Bar of the District of Columbia and the Bar of the State of Maryland, and I express no opinion herein as to any laws other than the laws of the District of Columbia, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States and, with
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 5
 
respect to the opinions set forth in paragraph 4, the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, the Maryland General Corporation Law and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act.
 
The opinions contained herein are rendered solely for your benefit and may not be relied on by any other person, except that I hereby authorize Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, in connection with rendering its opinion to you on the date hereof relating to the offer and sale of the Securities, to rely on this opinion with respect to matters governed by the law of the State of Delaware (except such matters that relate expressly to the Company, are governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law and are expressly addressed therein). The opinions expressed in this letter are limited to the matters set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred beyond those opinions expressly stated.  I assume no obligation to advise you of any facts that come to my attention, or any changes in law, subsequent to the date hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit B
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
RBS Securities Inc.
600 Steamboat Road
Greenwich, Connecticut 06830
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
1 Liberty Plaza, 25 Floor
th
165 Broadway
New York, New York 10006
 
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Pepco Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the Securities) pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated September 27, 2010, among the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., for themselves and as representatives of the other underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the Purchase Agreement).  The Securities will be issued under an indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the Trustee), as amended and supplemented and as to be further supplemented by an Officers Certificate dated the date hereof (the Officers Certificate)(such Indenture, as so amended and supplemented, the Indenture).  This opinion is being delivered to you in accordance with Section 5(a)(ii) of the Purchase Agreement.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein have the respective meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement.
 
We have reviewed:
 
(i)           the Purchase Agreement;
 
(ii)           the Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-169477, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on September 20, 2010 (the Registration Statement), registering, inter alia, the Securities for sale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the 1933 Act);
 
(iii)           the preliminary prospectus, consisting of the prospectus, dated September 20, 2010 (the Base Prospectus), as supplemented by a preliminary prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 2
 
September 27, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act (as so supplemented, the Pricing Prospectus);
 
(iv)           the term sheet, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on September 27, 2010, pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act (the Term Sheet and together with the Pricing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package);
 
(v)           the final prospectus, consisting of the Base Prospectus, as supplemented by a final prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Securities, filed with the Commission on September 28, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act (as so supplemented, the Prospectus);
 
(vi)           the Indenture;
 
(vii)           the Officers Certificate; and
 
(viii)           a facsimile copy of the certificate of the Securities furnished by the Trustee.
 
We also have reviewed such corporate records, certificates and other documents, and such questions of law, as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of rendering this opinion.
 
We have assumed that all signatures are genuine, that all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and that all copies of documents submitted to us conform to the originals.  We have assumed further that (i) the Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, (ii) the Company has all legal right, power and authority and has obtained all authorizations and approvals of governmental authorities necessary (A) to issue and sell the Securities, and (B) to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, and the Securities, and (iii) the Securities will constitute valid securities within the meaning of Section 8-110(a)(1) of the Delaware Uniform Commercial Code.
 
We have made no investigation for the purpose of verifying the assumptions set forth herein.
 
We have relied as to certain matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of the Company and other sources believed by us to be responsible, and on information regarding the Company contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
 
As used in this opinion, all references to the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus include all material incorporated by reference therein, to the extent not modified or superseded by statements and other information in the Registration Statement, Pricing Prospectus or Prospectus or in later filed material so incorporated.  In addition, the qualification in paragraph 5 of this letter to the best of our knowledge means the actual knowledge, but not constructive or imputed knowledge, of the attorneys in our firm who have given substantive attention to the transaction that is the subject of this opinion, without any representation or implication that any inquiry has been made with respect to such statements.
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 3
 
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
 
1.           The Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
2.           The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights and to general equity principles.  The Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the 1939 Act).
 
3.           The Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture and have been duly authorized and executed by the Company, and when the Securities have been (A) authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under the Indenture and (B) issued and delivered by the Company against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in the Purchase Agreement, the Securities (i) will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights and to general equity principles, and (ii) will have been issued and delivered in accordance with the terms, a nd will be entitled to the benefits, of the Indenture.
 
4.           The descriptions of the Securities and the Indenture contained in the Prospectus are accurate in all material respects.
 
5.           The Registration Statement is effective under the 1933 Act; the Pricing Prospectus and the Prospectus have been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b), and the Term Sheet has been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 433(d), under the 1933 Act; and, to the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission.
 
6.           The Registration Statement, on the date of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement as provided in Rule 430B(f)(2) under the 1933 Act, and the Prospectus, as of the date thereof (excluding the documents incorporated in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus by reference and other than the financial statements, including the notes thereto, the financial schedules and the other financial and statistical data included therein and the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.01 to the Registration Statement, as to which we express no opinion) complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and with the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations of the Com mission thereunder.
 
7.           The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated by the Prospectus and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus, will not be, an investment company or an entity controlled by an investment company, as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 4
 
Our opinions in paragraphs 2 and 3 above are subject to the following limitations and qualifications:
 
(a)           We express no opinion as to:
 
(b)           We express no opinion as to any right of setoff, bankers lien or counterclaim or right to the application of property in the possession or control of the Trustee.
 
In addition, in accordance with our understanding with the Company as to the scope of our services in connection with the offering of the Securities, as special counsel to the Company, we reviewed the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and participated in discussions with your representatives and those of the Company, your counsel and the Companys accountants.  On the basis of the information which was reviewed by us in the course of the performance of the services referred to above, considered in the light of our understanding of the applicable law and the experience we have gained through our practice under the federal securities laws, we confirm to you that nothing came to our attention in the course of such review which has caused us to believe that (a) the Registration Statement, on the date of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement as provided in Rule 430B(f)(2) under the 1933 Act, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the Disclosure Package, as of the Applicable Time (as specified in the Purchase Agreement), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus, as of its date contained, or as of the date hereof contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
The limitations inherent in the independent verification of factual matters and the character of determinations involved in the registration process are such, however, that we do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as specified in paragraph 4 above.  Also, we do not express any opinion or belief as to the financial statements, including the notes thereto, the financial schedules and the other financial and statistical data included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or with respect to the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.01 to the Registration Statement.
 
 
 
 
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
 
RBS Securities Inc.
 
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
 
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
October 1, 2010
 
Page 5
 
We are members of the bar of the District of Columbia and the State of New York.  We do not express any opinion herein on any laws other than the law of the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law and, to the extent expressly referred to herein, the federal law of the United States.
 
This letter is given to you as Representatives of the several Underwriters under the Purchase Agreement and is solely for the benefit of such Underwriters.  It may not be disclosed to or relied upon by any other person without our written consent.
 
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
B-5
 
 

THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO, OR REGISTERED OR EXCHANGED FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF, ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, AND NO SUCH TRANSFER MAY BE REGISTERED, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.  EVERY SECURITY AUTHENTICATED AND DELIVERED UPON REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF, OR IN EXCHANGE FOR OR IN LIEU OF, THIS SECURITY SHALL BE A GLOBAL SECURITY THAT IS SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING, EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein referred to as the Company, which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture (as hereinafter defined)), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $250,000,000 on October 1, 2015, and to pay interest on said principal sum semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year (each an Interest Payment Date), commencing on April 1, 2011 at the rate of 2.70% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  Interest will accrue from October 1, 2010 to the first Interest Payment Date, and thereafter will accrue from the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or d uly provided for.  In the event that any Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, then payment of interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay).  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the fifteenth calendar day of the month preceding the month in which such Interest Payment Date occurs; provided, however, that interest payable at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is paid.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such R egular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof.
 
Payment of the principal of and the Make-Whole Amount (as hereinafter defined), if any, and interest on this Security payable at Maturity will be made upon presentation at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, the State of New York.  Interest on this Security payable prior to Maturity shall be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto, as such address shall appear on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to an account designated by the Person entitled thereto. So long as the Securities of this series are registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company or a nominee thereof, all payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest in respect of the Securities of this series will be m ade in immediately available funds. All payments of principal of and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Security shall be made in such
 
 
2 
 
coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.  Any capitalized term which is used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Indenture.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to below by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed in its name by the Vice President and Treasurer of the Company and its corporate seal to be affixed hereto and attested by the Secretary of the Company.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
3 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the Securities), of the series designated 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015, all issued and to be issued under the Indenture (For Unsecured Debt Securities), dated as of September 6, 2002 (herein, together with any amendments thereto, called the Indenture, which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Bank of New York), as trustee (herein called the Trustee, which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture, including the Board Resolutions and Officers Certificate filed with the Trustee on October [1], 2010, creating such series, for a s tatement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
 
Optional Redemption
 
The Securities of this series shall be redeemable at the option of the Company prior to the Stated Maturity of the principal thereof, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time. The Company shall redeem the Securities in increments of $1,000.  The Company shall give notice of its intent to redeem such Securities of this series by first class mail at least 30 days but no more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date to each holder of Securities to be redeemed at such holders registered address.  If the Company redeems all or any part of the Securities of this series pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, it shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
 
plus, in each case, accrued interest on those Securities to the Redemption Date (calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and for any period shorter than a full month, on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in such period). If less than all of the Outstanding Securities of this series are to be redeemed, the principal amount to be redeemed shall be prorated as provided in the Officers Certificate filed with the Trustee on October [1], 2010 creating such series.
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
 
4 
 
 
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date, as set forth in the H.15 Daily Update, or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain prices on such Business Day, the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations actually obtained by the Trustee for such Redemption Date.
 
H.15 (519) means the weekly statistical release entitled H.15 (519) Selected Interest Rates or any successor publication published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
H.15 Daily Update means the daily update of H.15 (519) available through the worldwide website of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any successor site or publication.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer means RBS Securities Inc. and its successors; provided, however, that the Company may substitute therefor another primary United States Treasury securities dealer in New York City.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee before any Redemption Date for the Securities its calculation of the Redemption Price applicable to such redemption.  Except with respect to the obligations of the Trustee expressly set forth in the foregoing definitions of Comparable Treasury Price and Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the Trustee shall be under no duty to inquire into, may presume the correctness of, and shall be fully protected in acting upon, the Companys calculation of any Redemption Price of the Securities.
In lieu of stating the Redemption Price, notices of redemption of the Securities shall state substantially the following: The Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed shall equal the sum of (a) the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (not including the portion of any scheduled payment of interest which accrued prior to the Redemption Date) on the Notes being redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 25 basis points, plus (b) accrued interest on the principal amount
 
 
5 
 
hereof to the Redemption Date (calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and for any period shorter than a full month, on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in such period).
 
If at the time notice of redemption is given the redemption moneys are not on deposit with the Trustee, then the redemption may be subject to the receipt of such moneys on or before the Redemption Date, and if such condition is contained in the notices of redemption, such notice shall be of no effect unless such moneys are received.
General Provisions
 
The Indenture contains provisions for legal defeasance of the entire indebtedness of the Securities of this series, and for covenant defeasance with respect to the Securities of this series, upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof by supplemental indenture and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series (or tranches within a series) to be affected; provided, however, that the Indenture permits the Trustee to enter into supplemental indentures for limited purposes without the consent of the Holders.  The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series then Outstanding to waive compliance by the Company with c ertain provisions of the Indenture.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding in respect of which an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, considered as one class, shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the Trust ee for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the
 
 
6 
 
Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding in respect of which an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, considered as one class.  The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any Make-Whole Amount and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and in integral multiples thereof.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor and of authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.  No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the Make-Whole Amount, if any, or interest, if any, on this Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, or of the indebtedness represented thereby, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement under the Indenture, against any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation (either directly or through the Company or a predecessor or successor corporation), whether by virtue of any constitutional provision, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood by the Holder hereof that the Indenture and this Security are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal lia bility whatsoever shall attach to, or be incurred by, any incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any predecessor or successor corporation, because of the indebtedness hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in this Security or to be implied therefrom or herefrom, and that any such personal liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the issuance of this Security.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture and in the Officers Certificate establishing the terms of the Securities of this series.
 
 
 
7

September 30, 2010
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
701 Ninth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20068
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pepco Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and have acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the offer and sale by the Company of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the Notes) under and pursuant to:
(i)  a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-169477) (the Registration Statement) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Act), which was automatically effective upon filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on September 20, 2010;
(ii)  the base prospectus, dated as of September 20, 2010 (the Base Prospectus);
(iii)  the preliminary prospectus, consisting of the Base Prospectus, as supplemented by a prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Notes, filed with the Commission on September 27, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act;
(iv)  the final prospectus, dated September 27, 2010, consisting of the Base Prospectus, as supplemented by a prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2010, with respect to the offer and sale of the Notes, filed with the Commission on September 28, 2010, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act; and
(v)  the Purchase Agreement, dated September 27, 2010, among the Company and Bank of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., for themselves and as representatives of the other underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the Purchase Agreement).
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of September 6, 2002 (the Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Bank of New York), as trustee.
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
September 30, 2010
Page 2
In connection with this opinion, I, or my representatives, have examined originals, or copies that have been certified or otherwise identified to my or their satisfaction, of such other instruments, certificates, records and documents, and have reviewed such questions of law, as I have deemed necessary or appropriate for purposes of this opinion.  In such examination, I or my representatives have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me or them as originals, and the conformity to the original documents of all documents submitted to me or them as copies to the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.  As to any facts material to my opinion, I have relied upon the aforesaid instruments, certificates, record s and documents and inquiries of the Companys representatives.
Based upon the foregoing I am of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized for issuance and, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in the manner provided in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor set forth in the Purchase Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights and to general equity principles.
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K that will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
 
 
 






