FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100506175137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
      On May 7, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its first quarter 2010 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 

Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported first quarter 2010 consolidated earnings of $36 million, or 16 cents per share, compared to $45 million, or 21 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2009.  There were no special items in the first quarter of 2010.  Excluding a special item (as described below), earnings for the first quarter of 2009 would have been $37 million, or 17 cents per share.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the first quarter of 2010 was 222 million compared to 219 million for the first quarter of 2009.
 
 
The earnings decrease for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the 2009 quarter, excluding the special item, was driven by higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to system restoration costs incurred during two severe winter storms that occurred in February 2010 ($9 million, after-tax), and income tax adjustments related to uncertain tax positions.  Partially offsetting these decreases were higher Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services capacity margins.
 
 
Our first quarter results were significantly impacted by the costs associated with some of the worst winter storms on record in our service territories with incremental storm restoration expenses estimated at four cents per share, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  He added, Looking ahead, I believe our recently announced decision to sell Conectiv Energys power generation assets to Calpine and exit the merchant power business positions us well.  The sale will improve our risk profile, strengthen our balance sheet, and eliminate the need for new equity until at least 2012.
 
Rigby also cited progress on a number of important Power Delivery initiatives.  Our distribution rate cases in Maryland and Delaware are moving forward, and we recently reached a reasonable settlement with all parties to our distribution rate case in New Jersey, which is subject to approval by the Board of Public Utilities.  Our Blueprint for the Future initiatives are moving forward with smart meter installations continuing in Delaware and smart meter deployment scheduled to begin in the District of Columbia later this year.  Also in the District of Columbia and Delaware, we recently filed dynamic pricing proposals that will provide our customers with the opportunity to lower their energy bills by shifting their energy use to off peak periods.
 
 
 
First-Quarter Highlights
Conectiv Energy Sale
 
Power Delivery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
he Board of Public Utilities will consider the matter at its public meeting currently scheduled for May 12, 2010.
subject to final review and approval by the Board of Public Utilities. T
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2010 and 2009 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which also is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
 
 
Special Item
 
Management believes the special item shown below is not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Item
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Friday, May 7 at 9 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-578-5747 before 8:55 a.m.  The passcode for the call is 24894020.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-213-8054, using the same passcode, 24894020.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter passcode 99494047.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 a nd entering the same passcode 99494047.  An audio archive will be available at PHIs Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy.  PHI also provides retail energy saving products and sustainable services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of cap ital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION - continued
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 




