FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100421081528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
Sale of Conectiv Wholesale Power Generation Business
On April 20, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI) entered into an agreement to sell its Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation assets to New Development Holding, LLC (the Purchaser), a wholly owned subsidiary of Calpine Corporation (Calpine Corporation).  Under the terms of the purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement), the Purchaser will purchase Conectiv Energy Holding Company (CEHC), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PHI, for a purchase price of $1.65 billion, plus the market value of the fuel oil inventory at closing, and subject to adjustments for (i) the level of working capital and non-fuel oil inventory at closing and (ii) actual capital expenditures relative to budgeted capital expenditures throu gh the closing date.
All of CEHCs generation facilities and assets, which have an aggregate generating capacity of 3,860 megawatts, are included in the sale.  The assets are located in the eastern PJM region and consist of:
CEHC also is constructing a 565 megawatt combined cycle generating plant located in southern Pennsylvania referred to as the Delta Project.  Both the Delta Project and the six-year tolling agreement associated with the Delta Project are included in the sale.
The sale does not include the balance of PHIs Conectiv Energy segment, which includes Conectiv Energys load service supply contracts, energy hedging portfolio, certain tolling agreements, and other non-core assets.  PHIs Board of Directors has approved a plan to liquidate these contracts and other assets within the next 12 months.
The estimated after-tax proceeds of the sale of the Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation assets and the liquidation of the other assets and contracts, combined with the return of collateral posted under the contracts, are expected to be approximately $1.75 billion.  PHI expects to use the proceeds primarily to retire its existing debt.  Taxes on the sale and liquidation of the assets are currently estimated to be approximately $300 million.
Completion of the transaction will require the approval of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and satisfaction of the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.  Each partys obligation to complete the sale also is contingent on other customary closing conditions, including the material accuracy of the other partys representations and warranties and the compliance by the other party with its covenants.  The obligation of the Purchaser to complete the purchase also is contingent on no event, condition or developments occurring after the date of the Purchase
 
2 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
Agreement is signed that has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the business being purchased as a whole or on any of the principal generating plants.  The obligation of the Purchaser to complete the transaction is not subject to a financing contingency.
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of PHI and the Purchaser, including representations and warranties of PHI with respect to the business being sold.  The Purchase Agreement also contains customary covenants of PHI and the Purchaser, including the covenant of PHI that the business will be operated in the ordinary course prior to the closing.
Each of the parties has agreed to indemnify the other for breach of its representations and warranties and for the failure by it to perform its covenants.  PHI also has agreed to indemnify the Purchaser for a number of matters, both known and unknown, to the extent claims relating thereto are made against the Purchaser, as well as certain environmental liabilities, including (i) New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act compliance costs in excess of $10 million, (ii) any environmental claims with respect to any off-site location to the extent attributable to the business or operations of Conectiv Energy prior to the closing, and (iii) liability for claims by third parties seeking damages for bodily injury or loss of life caused by exposure to hazardous substances (including asbestos ) or environmental conditions on the property of the acquired business or, to the extent attributable to the business or operations of Conectiv Energy prior to the closing, at any off-site location.  The indemnification obligations of PHI with respect to breaches of representations and warranties are subject to a $320 million limit, with the exception that this limit does not apply to any indemnification that is based upon or arises out of fraud, bad faith or willful misconduct.
The parties have targeted June 30, 2010 as the closing date of the sale.  Beginning July 1, 2010, and until the closing occurs, the purchase price will be reduced by a specified amount per day.  The amount of the per diem reduction is (i) $360,000 in July, (ii) $363,500 in August, (iii) $237,500 in September, (iv) $195,000 in October, (v) $189,500 in November, and (vi) $219,500 in December.  If the closing does not occur on or before December 31, 2010, either party may elect to terminate the Purchase Agreement so long as the inability to close the transaction by that date is not the result of the failure of the terminating party to fulfill any of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement.
If the closing of the transaction does not occur as a result of a willful and intentional breach of the Purchase Agreement by one of the parties, the other party will be entitled to a payment in the amount of $175 million as liquidated damages. This payment obligation of the Purchaser is guaranteed by Calpine Corporation.
PHI currently estimates that the sale of the Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation assets on the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement and the liquidation of the remaining Conectiv Energy assets will result in a loss through the completion of the liquidation for financial reporting purposes ranging from $60 million to $90 million, after tax.  The loss to be recognized in the second quarter of 2010 could exceed this range due to unrealized losses required to be recorded in earnings related to derivative instruments no longer qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting.  PHI currently estimates that these unrealized losses will be offset over the remainder of the year by gains from the liquidation of load service supply contracts.  Beginning with its finan cial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the entire Conectiv Energy segment will be reported in discontinued operations.
Bridge Loan Facility
On April 20, 2010, PHI entered into a Credit Agreement for an aggregate principal amount of loans of up to $450 million with Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch (collectively, the Lenders), and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent (the Bridge Loan Facility).  PHI is entitled to make up to two draws under the Bridge Loan Facility at any time
 
3 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
on or before June 1, 2010.  The Bridge Loan Facility matures on April 19, 2011.  All indebtedness incurred under the Bridge Loan Facility is unsecured.
The interest rate payable by PHI on funds borrowed under the Bridge Loan Facility is, at its election, based on either (a) the corresponding Eurodollar rate or (b) the highest of (i) the prevailing prime rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5% or (iii) the one-month Eurodollar rate plus 1.0%, plus in each case a margin that varies according to the credit rating of PHI.
PHI may use the proceeds of loans drawn under the Bridge Loan Facility solely to repay $200 million in aggregate principal amount of its 4.00% Notes due May 15, 2010 and $250 million in aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due June 1, 2010.  Subject to certain exceptions, the Bridge Loan Facility requires PHI to make mandatory prepayments upon the receipt by PHI of cash proceeds from (i) certain issuances of equity interests by PHI, (ii) the issuance of debt securities in a public or private debt or capital markets transaction with a maturity of greater than one year, (iii) the borrowing by PHI under a new credit facility not currently in effect and (iv) certain asset sales, including the sale of CEHC discussed above.
Under the terms of the Bridge Loan Facility PHI must be in compliance with specified covenants, including (i) the requirement that PHI maintain a ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization of 65% or less, computed in accordance with the terms of the Bridge Loan Facility, which calculation excludes from the definition of total indebtedness certain trust preferred securities and deferrable interest subordinated debt (not to exceed 15% of total capitalization), (ii) a restriction on sales or other dispositions of assets, other than certain permitted sales and dispositions and (iii) a restriction on the incurrence of liens on the assets of PHI or any of its significant subsidiaries other than permitted liens.  The absence of a material adverse change in PHIs business, property, and results of operations or financial condition is not a condition to the availability of credit under the Bridge Loan Facility.  The Bridge Loan Facility does not include any ratings triggers.
 
The failure to satisfy any of the covenants or the occurrence of other specified events that constitute an event of default could result in the acceleration of the repayment obligations of PHI.  The events of default include (i) the failure of PHI or any of its significant subsidiaries to pay when due, or the acceleration of, certain indebtedness under other borrowing arrangements, (ii) certain bankruptcy events, judgments or decrees against PHI or its significant subsidiaries, and (iii) a change in control (as defined in the Bridge Loan Facility) of PHI or the failure of PHI to own all of the voting stock of its regulated utility subsidiaries (Potomac Electric Power Company, Delmarva Power & Light Company and Atlantic City Electric Company).
The Lenders or their affiliates have provided investment or commercial banking services to PHI and its affiliates, including as an underwriter of their securities, in the past and are likely to do so in the future.  They receive customary fees and commissions for those services.
See Item 1.01, Bridge Loan Facility above.
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, attached hereto, are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
4 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5 
 

WASHINGTON - Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today announced it has reached an agreement to sell its Conectiv Energy power generation assets to Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), for $1.65 billion, plus the value of the fuel inventory at closing (estimated to be $50 million) and subject to various closing adjustments.  The sale is expected to close by the end of June 2010.  The sale does not include Conectiv Energys load service supply contracts, energy hedging portfolio, certain tolling agreements, and several other non-core assets.  PHI expects to liquidate the remaining contracts and assets within the next 12 months.  The proceeds from the liquidation, combined with the return of collateral posted under the contracts, will further enhance the value of the transaction to PHI.
The sale of Conectiv Energy repositions PHI as fundamentally a regulated utility company, said Joseph M. Rigby, PHI Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  The sale also provides a number of significant benefits including an improved business risk profile, reduced volatility of future earnings, significantly reduced exposure to the energy commodity markets, lower capital and collateral requirements, and a strengthened credit profile.  Rigby added, Taking action now delivers real value in the near term such as an improved balance sheet and the elimination of the need to issue equity until at least 2012.  It also supports our commitment to the current dividend.
The estimated proceeds associated with the sale to Calpine and the liquidation of the remaining contracts and assets, combined with the return of collateral posted under the contracts, is expected to result in funds to PHI of approximately $2.05 billion, or approximately $1.75 billion net of $300 million of estimated taxes on the sale and liquidation of the assets.  PHI expects to use the $1.75 billion of net funds primarily for PHI debt reduction.  PHI currently estimates that the sale of the Conectiv Energy generation assets and the liquidation of the remaining contracts and assets will result in a loss for financial reporting purposes through the next twelve months in the range of $60 million to $90 million, after tax.  The loss to be recognized in the second quarter of 2010 could exceed this range because unrealized losses on certain contracts will be required to be recorded during the quarter.  PHI currently estimates that these unrealized losses will be offset over the next twelve months by gains from the liquidation of load service supply contracts.  Beginning with its financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the entire Conectiv Energy business segment will be reported in discontinued operations.  As a result of this transaction, PHI expects there will be a reduction of approximately 150 jobs.
 
 
 
Page-2 Pepco Holdings to Sell Conectiv Energys Generation Assets
The transaction will require the approval of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and satisfaction of the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
Conectiv Energy is a competitive wholesale generation energy company headquartered in Newark, Del.  The 3,860 megawatt generation fleet consists primarily of combined cycle power plants located in the Mid-Atlantic states, and the business operates in the PJM, New York and New England power pools.  In addition, Conectiv Energy has a 565 megawatt gas fired combined cycle power plant under construction near Delta, Pa.
 
Calpine is the largest pure-play independent power producer in the country with nearly 25,000 megawatts of generation capacity in 16 states and Canada.  It also is regarded as an environmental leader in power generation because its 76 power plants use only clean-burning natural gas or renewable geothermal energy.
 
Pepco Holdings is being advised in the sale by Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.  Covington & Burling LLP acted as legal counsel to the company.
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss the transaction on Wednesday, April 21 at 10:00 a.m. E.D.T.  Presentation materials will be available on the Companys website prior to the call.  The conference call may be accessed on the Internet at or by calling
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
1-866-804-6920.  The pass code for the call is 95205537.   International callers may access the call by dialing 1-857-350-1666, and using the same pass code, 95205537. An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 68588443.  If calling internationally, dial 1-617-801-6888 and enter pass code 68588443.  An audio archive will be available at PHIs Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
*Reporters are invited to participate in the 11:00 a.m. media call and may ask questions at that time.
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR MEDIA
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss the transaction on Wednesday, April 21 at 11:00 a.m. E.D.T.  The conference call may be accessed by calling 1-800-638-4930.  The pass code for the call is 80085755.   An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 92973800.
* For a list of Conectiv Generating Stations go to:  http://www.conectiv.com/page/our-generating-stations
 
 
# # #
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Washington, D.C., delivers electricity and natural gas to about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, and New Jersey, through its subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric.  PHI also provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy and retail energy products and services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI:
: Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain managements beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the companys control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and capital and credit market conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to further understand the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





