FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100920172554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 17, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. ("PHI") filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which included as Exhibit 99.5 unaudited pro forma financial statements as of June 30, 2010, and for the six months ended June 30, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet, included as part of those pro forma financial statements, incorrectly showed a pro forma adjustment to long-term debt that should have been presented as a pro forma adjustment to the current portion of long-term debt and project funding. The attached Exhibit 99.5 corrects this error and supersedes Exhibit 99.5 to the Form 8-K as originally filed.
 
(b) Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in Exhibit 99.5 and are incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information of Pepco Holdings, Inc. as of June 30, 2010, and for the six months ended June 30, 2010
On July 1, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc (PHI) completed the sale of its Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business to Calpine Corporation (Calpine). Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dated April 20, 2010, the $1.65 billion sale price was subject to several adjustments, including a $49 million payment for the estimated value of the fuel inventory at the time of the closing and a $60 million reduction in the closing payment attributable to lower capital expenditures incurred by PHI than was anticipated at the time of execution of the Purchase Agreement for Conectiv Energy's 565 megawatt combined cycle generating facility that is under construction (known as the Delta Project) during the period from January 1, 2010 through the date of the closing. After giving effect to these and other adjustments, PHI received proceeds at the closing in the amount of approximately $1.63 billion (subject to possible post-closing adjustments).
The sale of the wholesale power generation business to Calpine is part of a plan approved by the Board of Directors on April 20, 2010, for the disposition of PHI's Conectiv Energy segment. The plan also includes the liquidation, within the succeeding twelve months, of all of Conectiv Energy's load service supply contracts, energy hedging portfolio, certain tolling agreements and other assets not included in the sale to Calpine. As a result of the adoption of the plan of disposition, PHI reported the results of operations of the former Conectiv Energy segment as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 included in PHI's Form 10-Q filed on August 6, 2010.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented for PHI to illustrate the effects solely of the sale of the Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business to Calpine and the use of the net proceeds to pay transaction costs and related income taxes and to retire outstanding debt. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect any adjustments for the liquidation of the business operations not included in the sale to Calpine. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2010 illustrates the estimated effects of the sale to Calpine as if the transaction had occurred on June 30, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010 illustrates the estimated effects of the sale as if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the period. The pro forma adjustments and assumptions are described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared using assumptions and estimates that PHI believes are reasonable under the circumstances and are intended for informational purposes only. They are not necessarily indicative of the financial results that would have occurred if the transactions described herein had taken place on the dates indicated, nor are they indicative of the future consolidated results of PHI. However, management believes that the estimates and assumptions used provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects of the sale of its Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business. Management also believes the pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to the estimates and assumptions and are applied in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2010 and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010 should be read in conjunction with (i) the historical financial statements of PHI for the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-Q on August 6, 2010 and (ii) the historical financial statements of PHI for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 originally filed with the SEC on Form 10-K on February 26, 2010, as revised in Exhibit 99.3 of the Form 8-K filed on September 17, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and Statement of Income from Continuing Operations
(1) Basis of Presentation
On July 1, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc completed the sale of its Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business to Calpine Corporation. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dated April 20, 2010, the $1.65 billion sale price was subject to several adjustments, including a $49 million payment for the estimated value of the fuel inventory at the time of the closing and a $60 million reduction in the closing payment attributable to lower capital expenditures incurred by PHI than was anticipated at the time of execution of the Purchase Agreement for Conectiv Energy's 565 megawatt combined cycle generating facility that is under construction (known as the Delta Project) during the period from January 1, 2010 through the date of the closing. After giving effect to these and other adjustments, PHI received proceeds in the amount of approximately $1.63 billion (subject to possible post-closing adjustments).
The sale of the wholesale power generation business to Calpine is part of a plan approved by the Board of Directors on April 20, 2010, for the disposition of PHI's Conectiv Energy segment. The plan also includes the liquidation, within the succeeding twelve months, of all of Conectiv Energy's load service supply contracts, energy hedging portfolio, certain tolling agreements and other assets not included in the sale to Calpine. As a result of the adoption of the plan of disposition, PHI reported the results of operations of the former Conectiv Energy segment as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 included in PHI's Form 10-Q filed on August 6, 2010.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2010, solely illustrates the estimated effect of the sale of the Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business to Calpine, and the use of the proceeds to pay transaction costs and related income taxes and to retire outstanding debt, as if the transaction had occurred on June 30, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010 illustrates the estimated effects of the sale of the wholesale power generation business to Calpine and the use of the proceeds as if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the period. The pro forma adjustments and assumptions are described in Note 2 below.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect any adjustments for the liquidation of the business operations not included in the sale to Calpine. The estimated after-tax proceeds from the liquidation of these business operations would be used to retire additional short-term debt. The retirement of additional short-term debt and the related reduction in interest expense are not expected to be material in relation to the pro forma condensed consolidated financial information taken as a whole.
 
(2) Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
 
 
 
 
The after-tax debt extinguishment costs, representing an additional pro forma adjustment to Equity, were approximately $71 million, primarily representing the aggregate after-tax premiums paid to holders of the long-term debt in July 2010 in connection with the early retirement of that debt.
PHI used the net after-tax proceeds from the sale of its Conectiv Energy wholesale power generation business to reduce its short-term and long-term debt. The pro forma adjustments take into account the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


