FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100225182038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
On February 26, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its full year and fourth quarter 2009 operating results. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported full year 2009 consolidated earnings of $235 million, or $1.06 per share, compared to $300 million, or $1.47 per share, in 2008. Excluding special items (as described below), earnings for the full year 2009 would have been $200 million, or 91 cents per share, compared to $393 million, or $1.93 per share, in 2008. The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding in 2009 was 221 million compared to 204 million in 2008.
The earnings decrease, excluding special items, for the full year 2009 as compared to the prior year was driven primarily by lower Conectiv Energy and Power Delivery earnings. The lower Conectiv Energy earnings were primarily the result of lower generation output, reduced spark spreads and dark spreads, and the performance of economic fuel hedges. The lower Power Delivery earnings were primarily due to higher operation and maintenance expense, driven largely by increased pension expense, higher depreciation, and higher interest expense. The recognition of lower benefits from income tax adjustments than in 2008 and the effect of dilution negatively impacted the company's consolidated results.
"2009 was a challenging earnings year given the pressures of the wholesale energy market, the economic downturn, and the impact of higher pension expense and capital costs principally incurred to support rate base growth not yet fully reflected in regulated rates," said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "However, the year was also marked by steady progress on our key growth initiatives. Our vision of a smart grid is becoming a reality. We began to install advanced meters for our Delaware customers, accelerated our smart grid plans in our other jurisdictions with the help of federal stimulus grant awards, and implemented decoupling in another of our service territories. In addition to our smart grid investments, we made significant investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure to improve reliability, including $130 million for transmission projects above and beyond our spending for the Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway project."
Rigby also commented on the significant progress on the regulatory front. "We filed electric distribution rate cases in each of the five electric jurisdictions we serve. We received a decision in the first of these cases which approved a revenue increase for Delmarva Power and reflected adherence to important regulatory precedents. We will continue to seek rate increases and other cost recovery mechanisms that reduce regulatory lag and provide us an opportunity to earn the authorized rates of return."
 
For the fourth quarter of 2009, consolidated earnings were $41 million, or 18 cents per share, compared to $67 million, or 32 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2008. There were no special items in either period. The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2009 was 222 million compared to 211 million for the same period in the prior year.
The decrease in earnings for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 was primarily caused by lower Power Delivery earnings due to higher operation and maintenance expenses and lower distribution sales caused by mild weather. At Pepco Energy Services, higher capital costs led to lower earnings.
Full Year Highlights
Regulatory  Decisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory  Pending Cases
 
 
 
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
Exit from Retail Energy Business
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
Operations
 
 
 
Other
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2009 and 2008 can be found in the schedules that follow. Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Special Items
Management believes the special items shown below are not representative of the company's ongoing business operations.
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results on Friday, February 26 at 11:00 a.m. E.S.T. Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-800-237-9752 before 10:55 a.m. The pass code for the call is 11505105. International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-847-8706, using the same pass code, 11505105. An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call. To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 90695427. International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 90695427. An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at .
Note:
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
Pepco Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Washington, D.C., delivers electricity and natural gas to about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, and New Jersey, through its subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric. PHI also provides competitive wholesale generation services through Conectiv Energy and retail energy products and services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI:
: Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law. These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events. They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and capital and credit market conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This information is presented solely to provide additional information to further understand the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION - continued
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POWER DELIVERY SALES AND REVENUES
 
 
WEATHER DATA - CONSOLIDATED ELECTRIC SERVICE TERRITORY
 
CONECTIV ENERGY
 
Notes:
 
 
CONECTIV ENERGY - continued
 
Operating Summary
 
Notes:
 
 
PEPCO ENERGY SERVICES
Operating Summary
 
Notes:
 
 


