FILE:POM/POM-8K-20101220160326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
 
The table below presents the projected capital expenditures, for the five-year period 2011 through 2015, for Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI) and its Power Delivery business.  The Power Delivery business consists of the following reporting company subsidiaries of PHI:  Potomac Electric Power Company, Delmarva Power & Light Company and Atlantic City Electric Company.
Power Delivery
 
The projected capital expenditures listed in the table for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than the Mid Atlantic Power Pathway (MAPP) project) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability.
 
Blueprint for the Future construction costs relate to an initiative that combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy.
 
2 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
 
MAPP is a new 152-mile interstate transmission line to be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, and the Delmarva Peninsula.
 
 
PHIs projected capital expenditures are reviewed periodically by PHI and its subsidiaries, and are subject to modification at any time, and from time to time, to take into account a broad range of factors, including, without limitation, changes in the business plans of PHI and its subsidiaries, the economy, capital and credit market conditions, regulatory requirements and governmental policies, environmental laws, population growth rates and demographic patterns, competition, taxation, and inflation.
 
The projected capital expenditures and construction costs, and the description thereof, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and covered by the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. As such they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from the projections.  Neither PHI nor any of its subsidiary registrants undertake any obligation to update any of these projections to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
3 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 



