FILE:POM/POM-8K-20100805173932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 6, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its second quarter 2010 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported second quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations of $76 million, or 34 cents per share, compared to $39 million, or 18 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2009.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the second quarter of 2010 was 223 million compared to 220 million for the second quarter of 2009.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2010, as compared to the 2009 quarter, was driven by higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher sales caused by warmer weather as well as higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to the accrual of true-ups for the prior rate year), higher unbilled revenue associated with Atlantic City Electric basic generation service, lower operation and maintenance expenses, and a favorable income tax adjustment.
 
   Our earnings from continuing operations for the quarter reflect the positive impacts of our infrastructure investments and constructive regulatory outcomes, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  We also continue to make significant progress in executing our business plan.  We have completed the sale of Conectiv Energys wholesale generation business, used the sale proceeds to pay down parent company debt, and filed a natural gas base rate case for Delmarva Power.  Rigby added, As we continue with our infrastructure build out, we will maintain our focus on customer satisfaction and earning our authorized rates of return.
   
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2010, earnings from continuing operations were $104 million, or 47 cents per share, compared to $80 million, or 37 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year.  There were no special items in the 2010 period.  Excluding a special item (as described below under the heading Special Item), earnings from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009, would have been $72 million, or 33 cents per share.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was 223 million compared to 220 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to earnings for the same period in the prior year, excluding the special item, was driven by higher distribution revenue
 
 
 
 
(primarily due to higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions as well as growth in the number of customers), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to the accrual of true-ups for the prior rate year), and higher unbilled revenue associated with Atlantic City Electric basic generation service.
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
On April 20, 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy.  The plan consists of the sale of the wholesale generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010 (as further discussed below under the heading Recent Events - Conectiv Energy Sale), and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2010 and 2009 quarterly and year-to-date periods are reported as discontinued operations.
 
Year-to-date, Pepco Holdings has incurred an after-tax loss of $122 million from discontinued operations.  Included in this loss is a $67 million after-tax write-down of the wholesale generation assets included in the Calpine sale.  The year-to-date loss also includes $50 million of after-tax unrealized losses on derivative instruments associated with Conectiv Energys load service business previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income that have been reclassified into income as a result of the intention to liquidate the load service supply contracts and related hedges.  Pepco Holdings expects these unrealized losses will be partially offset over the remainder of the year by gains from the liquidation of the load service supply contracts and other remaining assets.  Upon comple tion of the liquidation of Conectiv Energys remaining contracts and assets, Pepco Holdings currently expects the overall after-tax loss on the Conectiv Energy disposition will be in the range of $75 million to $100 million.
 
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings reaffirms its 2010 earnings guidance range of $0.80 to $0.95 per share.  The guidance range excludes the results of discontinued operations and the impact of any special, unusual, or extraordinary items.
 
 
Recent Events
 
Conectiv Energy Sale
 
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
 
 
 
Power Delivery
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
Pepco Energy Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2010 and 2009 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
Special Item
 
Management believes the special item shown below is not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Item
 
 
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results on Friday, Aug. 6 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-356-4281 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 67137875.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-597-5395, using the same pass code, 67137875.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 85742855.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 85742855.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
.
     Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at
   
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides retail energy saving products and sustainable services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of cap ital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




