FILE:POM/POM-8K-20101028173623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
 On October 28, 2010, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its third quarter 2010 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
   
   
 
 Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported third quarter 2010 earnings from continuing operations of $21 million, or 9 cents per share, compared to $104 million, or 47 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2009.  Excluding special items (as described below under the heading Special Items), earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2010, would have been $116 million, or 52 cents per share compared to $77 million, or 35 cents per share, for the third quarter of 2009.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the third quarter of 2010 was 224 million compared to 221 million for the third quarter of 2009.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010, as compared to the 2009 quarter, excluding special items, was driven by higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher sales caused by warmer weather as well as higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to higher transmission rates), lower interest expense (primarily due to the redemption of parent company debt with the proceeds from the sale of the Conectiv Energy wholesale generation business), and favorable income tax adjustments.
 
Our earnings from continuing operations for the quarter reflect strong Power Delivery results driven by our infrastructure investments, regulatory outcomes, and the impact of hot summer weather on electric distribution sales.  Lower interest expense also contributed to higher earnings, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The pay down of Pepco Holdings debt with the proceeds from the Conectiv Energy transaction lowered interest expense and strengthened our balance sheet.  Rigby added, During the quarter, we reached key milestones for several significant projects.  The PJM Board reaffirmed the need for our Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway transmission project with a new completion date of 2015, and P epco received approval from the Maryland Public Service Commission to proceed with the deployment of advanced metering infrastructure.  We also initiated our enhanced reliability plan in our Pepco region, with our other regions soon to follow.  Projects such as these are important components of our strategy to provide value to our customers and investors.
 
 
 
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, earnings from continuing operations were $125 million, or 56 cents per share, compared to $184 million, or 84 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year.  Excluding special items (as described below under the heading Special Items), earnings from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, would have been $220 million, or 99 cents per share, compared to $149 million, or 68 cents per share, for the first nine months of 2009.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was 223 million compared to 220 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared to earnings for the same period in the prior year, excluding special items, was driven by higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions, growth in the number of customers, an increase in customer usage, and higher sales caused by warmer weather), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to higher transmission rates and the accrual of true-ups for the prior rate year), and favorable income tax adjustments.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
On April 20, 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy.  The plan consists of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2010 and 2009 quarterly and year-to-date periods are reported as discontinued operations.
 
Year-to-date, Pepco Holdings has incurred an after-tax loss of $126 million from discontinued operations.  Upon completion of the liquidation of Conectiv Energys remaining contracts and assets, Pepco Holdings currently expects the overall after-tax loss on the Conectiv Energy disposition will be in the range of $110 million to $125 million.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings is raising its 2010 earnings guidance range to $1.00 to $1.10 per share from $0.80 to $0.95 per share.  The revised guidance range represents strong Power Delivery operating performance through the first nine months of 2010, including the impact of hot summer weather on electric distribution revenue in certain jurisdictions, partially offset by the effects of a much higher level of storm activity in 2010, compared to 2009.  Pepco Holdings is also reaffirming its 2011 earnings outlook range of $1.10 to $1.30 per share.  The guidance and outlook ranges exclude the results of discontinued operations and the impact of any special, unusual, or extraordinary items.
 
Recent Events
 
Power Delivery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
Pepco Energy Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2010 and 2009 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Special Items
 
Management believes the special items shown below are not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items
 
 
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss third quarter results on Friday, Oct. 29 at 10 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-888-396-2356 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 87208435.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-847-8709, using the same pass code, 87208435.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 32742742.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 32742742.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
.
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides retail energy savings and renewable services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of cap ital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





