FILE:POM/POM-8K-20110505175119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
On May 6, 2011, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its first quarter 2011 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
2

 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported first quarter 2011 earnings from continuing operations of $62 million, or 27 cents per share, compared to $28 million, or 13 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2010.  There were no special items in either period.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the first quarter of 2011 was 225 million compared to 222 million for the first quarter of 2010.
 
The earnings increase for the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the 2010 quarter was caused by a number of factors including higher transmission revenue (primarily due to increased investment in transmission assets), higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher distribution rates driven by higher costs and increased investment in distribution assets to enhance reliability), and lower interest expense.  Higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense (primarily due to increased corrective and preventative electric system maintenance, increased tree trimming, and other reliability expenditures), partially offset the earnings increases.
 
Our earnings from continuing operations reflect the positive effects of our investment in utility infrastructure and reasonable regulatory outcomes, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  During the quarter, we continued to make good progress on a number of important Power Delivery initiatives.  The investments made as part of our Reliability Enhancement Plan are on track and reflect our commitment to reduce power outages and improve service to our customers.  Our Blueprint for the Future initiatives are moving forward with advanced meter installations continuing in Delaware and the District of Columbia.  Also, we recently filed a dynamic pricing proposal in Delaware that will reward our customers for lowering their energy use during periods when energy demand is high.  Rigby added, For the remainder of 2011, we will remain focused on executing our business plan with a focus on improving reliability and the customer experience.
 
 
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy.  The plan consisted of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses, which has been substantially completed.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2011 and 2010 quarterly periods are reported as discontinued operations.  For the first quarter of 2011, earnings from discontinued operations were $2 million.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings reaffirms its earnings guidance range for 2011 of between $1.10 and $1.25 per share.  The guidance range excludes the results of discontinued operations and the impact of any special, unusual, or extraordinary items.  The guidance range assumes normal weather and excludes the net mark-to-market effects of economic hedging activities associated with the retail energy supply business at Pepco Energy Services.
 
Recent Events
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001 and 2002 income tax returns, plus penalties of $1 million.  PHI intends to pay any interest associated with the disallowed deductions once the IRS assesses the amount due. PHI currently intends to file a refund claim for the additional taxes and related interest and penalties incurred by reason of the disallowed deductions, which it expects the IRS to deny, and if so, PHI intends to pursue litigation in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against the IRS to defend its tax position and recover the tax payment, interest, and penalties. Absent a settlement, litigation against the IRS may take several years to resolve.
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2011 and 2010 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which also is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Friday, May 6 at 10:00 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-314-5232 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 68128089.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-213-8052, using the same pass code, 68128089.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 52596460.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 52596460.  An audio archive will be available at Pepco Holdings Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  Pepco Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of Pepco Holdings.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
1The 2010 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 222 million.
/
2/ The effect of weather compared to the 20-year average weather is estimated to have no impact on earnings per share.
3/ The 2011 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 225 million.
5
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





