FILE:POM/POM-8K-20110225072530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 
                       On February 25, 2011, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its full year and fourth quarter 2010 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   
  
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
 
 

 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported full year 2010 earnings from continuing operations of $139 million, or $0.62 per share, compared to $223 million, or $1.01 per share, in 2009.  Excluding special items (as described below under the heading Special Items), earnings from continuing operations for the full year 2010 would have been $276 million, or $1.24 per share, compared to $188 million, or $0.85 per share, in 2009.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding in 2010 was 224 million compared to 221 million in 2009.
 
 
The earnings increase from continuing operations for the full year 2010, as compared to the prior year, excluding special items, was driven by higher distribution revenue (due to higher distribution rates, higher sales, and growth in the number of customers), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to the increase of investment in transmission plant), lower interest expense, and favorable income tax adjustments (including a favorable $15 million adjustment related to a federal income tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service for prior years).  Higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to system restoration costs incurred during several severe storms, environmental remediation costs, and tree trimming costs, partially offset the earnings increases.
 
 
2010 was a transformative year for Pepco Holdings.  Our financial results facilitate infrastructure investments to improve system reliability and improve customer service, which are our top priorities, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  Our earnings from continuing operations for the year reflect the positive effects of our infrastructure investments, regulatory outcomes, and higher sales.  Rigby added, The year was also marked by steady progress on our key initiatives.  The sale of Conectiv Energys power generation assets and the exit from the merchant power business position us well going forward with an improved risk profile and a strengthened balance sheet.  Our implementation of smart meters is almost comp lete in Delaware and is now underway in the District of Columbia.  In addition to our smart grid investments, we made significant investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure and announced a plan to advance initiatives and focus additional resources to improve reliability and enhance customer satisfaction.
 
 
For the fourth quarter of 2010, earnings from continuing operations were $14 million, or 6 cents per share, compared to $39 million, or 17 cents per share, for the fourth quarter of 2009.  Excluding special items (as described
 
 
 
 
 
below under the heading Special Items), earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010 would have been $56 million, or 25 cents per share.  There were no special items in the fourth quarter of 2009.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2010 was 225 million compared to 222 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010, excluding special items, as compared to the 2009 quarter, was driven by higher distribution and transmission revenue due to higher rates in effect, higher sales, lower interest expense, and an adjustment related to a federal income tax settlement.  Higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to environmental remediation and tree trimming costs, partially offset the earnings increases.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
On April 20, 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy.  The plan consisted of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses, which has been substantially completed.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2010 and 2009 annual and quarterly periods are reported as discontinued operations.  For the full year 2010, Pepco Holdings incurred an after-tax loss of $107 million from discontinued operations.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings announced earnings guidance for 2011 of between $1.10 and $1.25 per share.  The guidance range excludes the results of discontinued operations and the impact of any special, unusual, or extraordinary items.  The guidance range assumes normal weather and excludes the net mark-to-market effects of economic hedging activities at Pepco Energy Services.
 
Highlights
 
Conectiv Energy Sale
 
 
Regulatory  Decisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory  Pending Cases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2010 and 2009 can be found in the schedules that follow.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
Special Items
 
Management believes the special items shown below are not representative of the companys ongoing business operations.
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results on Friday, February 25 at 10:00 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-800-261-3417 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 79608747.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-614-3673, using the same pass code, 79608747.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 42846468.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 42 846468.  An audio archive will be available at Pepco Holdings Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at .
Note:
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of cap ital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  Pepco Holdings disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of Pepco Holdings.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
15
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





