FILE:POM/POM-8K-20110803172524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
                                          
 August 3, 2011                                    
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Form 8-K
 On August 3, 2011, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its second quarter 2011 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
  Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
2
 

 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported second quarter 2011 earnings from continuing operations of $95 million, or 42 cents per share, compared to $76 million, or 34 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2010.  There were no special items in either period.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the second quarter of 2011 was 226 million compared to 223 million for the second quarter of 2010.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011, as compared to the 2010 quarter, was the result of higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions driven by higher costs and increased investment in distribution assets to enhance reliability), higher default electricity supply margins (primarily due to an adjustment for the cost recovery of higher cash working capital costs), lower interest expense, and favorable income tax adjustments (including a favorable $17 million (after-tax) interest income adjustment primarily related to a federal income tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for prior tax years).  Partially offsetting the earnings increases were higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense (primarily due to increased electric system preventative maintenance, increased tree trimming, and emergency restoration expenditures) and lower unbilled revenue associated with the Atlantic City Electric basic generation service.
 
Our earnings from continuing operations reflect the effects of our investment in utility infrastructure and reasonable regulatory outcomes.  Lower interest expense and tax adjustments also contributed to higher earnings, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  During the quarter, we continued to make progress on a number of important Power Delivery initiatives.  The investments made as part of our Reliability Enhancement Plan are on track and we are beginning to see positive trends in the operating performance of our electric system.  Our Blueprint for the Future initiatives are moving forward as planned with advanced electric meter installations largely completed in Delaware, continuing in the District of Columbia, and underway in Maryland.  Rigby added, For the remainder of 2011, we will remain focused on executing our business plan with the aim of reducing power outages, improving customer satisfaction, and earning our authorized rates of return.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2011, earnings from continuing operations were $157 million, or 69 cents per share, compared to $104 million, or 47 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year.  There were no special items in either period.  The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was 226 million compared to 223 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2011, compared to earnings for the same period in the prior year, was the result of higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions driven by higher costs and increased investment in distribution assets to enhance reliability), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to increased investment in transmission assets), higher default electricity supply margins (primarily due to an adjustment for the cost recovery of higher cash working capital costs), lower interest expense, and favorable income tax adjustments (including a favorable $17 million (after-tax) interest income adjustment primarily related to a federal income tax settlement with the IRS for prior tax years).  Partially offsetting the earnings increases was higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense (primarily due to increased electric system preventative maintenance, increased tree trimming, and emergency restoration expenditures).
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy.  The plan consisted of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses, which has been substantially completed.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2011 and 2010 quarterly and year-to-date periods are reported as discontinued operations.  For the year-to-date 2011 period, earnings from discontinued operations were $1 million.
 
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings reaffirms its earnings guidance range for 2011 of between $1.10 and $1.25 per share.  The guidance range excludes the results of discontinued operations and the impact of any special, unusual, or extraordinary items.  The guidance range assumes normal weather conditions for the remainder of the year and excludes the net mark-to-market effects of economic hedging activities associated with the retail energy supply business of Pepco Energy Services.
 
Recent Events
Operations
 
2
 
 
 
compared to the same period in 2010.  Weather adjusted electric sales were 11,580 GWh in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 11,457 GWh for the same period in the prior year, an increase of 1%.  Due to the adoption of distribution revenue decoupling mechanisms in Maryland and the District of Columbia, approximately 64% of forecasted 2011 electric distribution revenue is not affected by weather.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
of the leases comprising a second lease investment.  Pepco Holdings received net proceeds of $161 million and recorded an after-tax gain of $3 million.  The current annual tax benefits from the remaining cross-border energy lease investments are approximately $52 million.  As of June 30, 2011, the equity investment in the cross-border energy leases was $1.3 billion.
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2011 and 2010 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
5
 
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results on Friday, Aug. 5 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-866-543-6403 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 50463816.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-213-8896, using the same pass code, 50463816.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 34112348.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 34112348.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's Web site, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at  promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Except for historical statements and discussions, the statements in this news release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities law.  These statements contain management's beliefs based on information currently available to management and on various assumptions concerning future events.  Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance or events.  They are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the company's control.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include general economic, business and financing conditions; availability and cost of capital; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies; weather conditions; competition; governmental actions; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  These uncertainties and factors could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  PHI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  This information is presented solely to provide additional information to understand further the results and prospects of PHI.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
6
 
 
 
1/   The 2010 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 223 million.
2/   The effect of weather compared to the 20-year average weather is estimated to have no impact on earnings per share.
3/   The 2011 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 226 million.
 
7
 
 
 
1/   The 2010 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 223 million.
2/   The effect of weather compared to the 20-year average weather is estimated to have no impact on earnings per share.
3/   The 2011 weighted average number of basic shares outstanding was 226 million.
 
8
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION  continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
11
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
12
 
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
  
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





