FILE:POM/POM-8K-20111103185959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
                    
 November 4, 2011                      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 4, 2011, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its third quarter 2011 operating results.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The information being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.  The information being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 

\
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported third quarter 2011 earnings from continuing operations of $80 million, or 35 cents per share, compared to $21 million, or 9 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2010.  There were no special items in the third quarter of 2011.  Excluding special items (as described below under the heading Special Items), earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010 would have been $116 million, or 52 cents per share.  The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter of 2011 was 226 million compared to 224 million for the third quarter of 2010.
 
The decrease in earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2011, as compared to the 2010 quarter, excluding special items, was driven by higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense primarily resulting from increased electric system preventative maintenance and increased tree trimming activities.  In addition, the impact of favorable income tax adjustments in the 2010 quarter relative to the 2011 quarter also contributed to the earnings decrease.
 
Our earnings from continuing operations for the quarter reflect continued progress on executing our strategic plan, including our efforts to improve system reliability and customer service, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. In late August, our efforts to improve reliability were tested with the arrival of Hurricane Irene.  The high winds and driving rain caused about 445,000 customers to lose power at the height of the storm, or about 25 percent of our electric customers.  We applied a maximum level of resources to restore power, and had the vast majority of our customers restored within two days.
 
Rigby also cited progress on a number of important Power Delivery initiatives.  We continue to modernize our electric system by installing advanced technologies.  Our deployment of smart meters is essentially complete in Delaware and is continuing in the District of Columbia and Maryland for Pepco customers.  As the meters are activated, our utilities are able to pinpoint the location of individual power outages, making restoration efforts more efficient.  We are installing smart relays on our electric system to automatically reroute power if equipment problems are encountered, thus speeding restoration.  In addition to our smart grid investments, we continue to make significant
 
 
 
 
investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure, including upgrading our electric system to improve reliability of service.  Investments such as these are important components of our strategy to provide value to our customers and investors.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, earnings from continuing operations were $237 million, or $1.05 per share, compared to $125 million, or 56 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year.  There were no special items in the 2011 period.  Excluding special items (as described below under the heading Special Items), earnings from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, would have been $220 million, or 99 cents per share.  The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was 226 million compared to 223 million for the same period in the prior year.
 
The increase in earnings from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to earnings from continuing operations for the same period in the prior year, excluding special items, was the result of higher distribution revenue (primarily due to higher distribution rates in certain jurisdictions driven by higher costs and increased investment in distribution assets to enhance reliability), higher transmission revenue (primarily due to increased investment in transmission assets), higher default electricity supply margins (primarily due to an adjustment for the cost recovery of higher cash working capital costs), lower interest expense, and favorable income tax adjustments (including a favorable $17 million (after-tax) interest income adjustment primarily related to a federal income tax settlement with the IRS for prior tax years).  Partially offsetting the earnings increases was higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to increased electric system preventative maintenance and increased tree trimming activities.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy Holding Company.  The plan consisted of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses, which has been substantially completed.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2011 and 2010 quarterly and year-to-date periods are reported as discontinued operations.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, earnings from discontinued operations were $1 million.
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings has narrowed its 2011 earnings guidance range to $1.15 to $1.25 per share from $1.10 to $1.25 per share.  The guidance range:
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
Recent Events
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2011 and 2010 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
 
 
Special Items
 
Management believes the special items shown below are not representative of Pepco Holdings ongoing business operations.  Management uses earnings excluding special items and related per share data internally to evaluate Pepco Holdings period-over-period financial performance and, therefore, believes that this information is useful to investors.  The presentation of earnings excluding special items and related per share data is intended to complement, and should not be considered as an alternative to, reported earnings in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items
 
 
Income tax effects with respect to the foregoing special items were calculated using a composite income tax rate of approximately 40%.
 
 
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
 Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss third quarter results on Friday, Nov. 4 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-800-259-0251 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 56823945.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-614-3671, using the same pass code, 56823945.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 56394463.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 56394463.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's website, .
   
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at  promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
   
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
 
Some of the statements contained in this news release with respect to Pepco Holdings, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric, including each of their respective subsidiaries (each, a Reporting Company), are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  These factors should be read together with the risk factors included in the Risk Factors section of each Reporting Companys annual and quarterly reports filed in 2011, and investors should refer to these risk factor sections.  All of such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this news release was released, and each Reporting Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after such date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The factors described above should not be construed as exhaustive.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
1/   The 2010 average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding was 224 million.
weighted
2/   Management believes the special items are not representative of the company's ongoing business operations.
3/   The effect of weather compared to the 20-year average weather is estimated to have increased earnings by $0.02 per share.
4/   The 2011 weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding was 226 million.
 
 
 
 
 
1/    The 2010 weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding was 223 million.
2/    Management believes the special items are not representative of the company's ongoing business operations.
3/    The effect of weather compared to the 20-year average weather is estimated to have increased earnings by $0.02 per share.
4/    The 2011 weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding was 226 million.
9
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION - continued
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





