FILE:POM/POM-8K-20110819080229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
                August 18, 2011                      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
On August 18, 2011, Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI), on behalf of its subsidiaries, Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) and Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL, and, together with Pepco, collectively, the Company), received a letter (the PJM Letter) dated August 18, 2011 from  PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM), the regional grid operator, indicating that the scheduled in-service date for the Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway (MAPP) has been delayed from June 1, 2015 to the 2019 to 2021 time period.  MAPP is a proposed high-voltage 152-mile interstate transmission project planned to originate at the Possum Point substation in northern Virginia, traverse under the Chesapeake Bay and end at the Indian River substation in Delaware.
In 2007, PJM directed the Company to construct MAPP to resolve violations of national and regional standards for reliable operation of the regions transmission system.  Since that time, annual studies conducted by PJM have reaffirmed the need for MAPP; however, PJMs latest analyses indicate that the projected need for MAPP has been delayed.  As a result, PJM decided to revise the in-service date, but has retained the MAPP project in its 2011 Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (RTEP).
In connection with PJMs request, the Company has requested in filings with the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) and the Virginia State Corporation Commission (VSCC) a temporary delay in the procedural schedules in connection with the pending applications to construct MAPP in light of the new in-service date.  The Company requested a temporary delay in the current procedural schedules for either the later of one year from August 2011 or the issuance of the 2012 RTEP analysis related to MAPP.
The in-service date of MAPP will be evaluated as part of PJMs 2012 RTEP review process.  Until PJMs evaluation is concluded, PJM directed PHI to limit further development efforts with respect to the MAPP project and to proceed with only those development efforts reasonably necessary to allow the MAPP project to be quickly restarted if and when deemed necessary.  PHI will be evaluating the work that will be required to support MAPP based on the new in-service date and in accordance with the directives of PJM contained in the PJM Letter.  During this interim period, the Company intends to continue to complete the right-of-way acquisition for the proposed route, and some environmental and other preparatory activities.
In light of the directives contained in the PJM Letter, the Company is also in the process of re-evaluating its five-year capital expenditures plan with respect to the MAPP project and other transmission and distribution projects, and it anticipates that it will complete such reevaluation by the end of 2011.  As a result, the forecasted construction expenditures contained in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 24, 2011 will be updated following the reevaluation of the five-year capital expenditures plan.
Capital expenditures related to MAPP incurred by PHIs Power Delivery segment during the six months ended June 30, 2011 were $19 million.  Of this amount, approximately $10 million and $9 million of capital expenditures incurred were attributable to Pepco and DPL, respectively.  The Company currently anticipates approximately $10 million in additional capital spending related to MAPP through the end of 2011.  Total cumulative capital expenditures for MAPP from 2007 through June 30, 2011 were approximately $85 million.  Of this amount, approximately $56 million and $29 million of cumulative capital expenditures incurred were attributable to Pepco and DPL,
 
2 
 
respectively.  If the MAPP project is cancelled at some future date, recovery will occur through the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) incentive rates that allow recovery of all costs prudently incurred in connection with the project.
On August 19, 2011, PHI issued a news release regarding the foregoing, which has been filed as Exhibit 99 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item 8.01.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements include declarations regarding the Companys intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations.  In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, future,  expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology.  Any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Companys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond the Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all such factors, nor can the Company assess the impact of any such factor on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
4 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 

WASHINGTON  Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI) today notified the Maryland Public Service Commission and Virginia State Corporation Commission that the company is requesting temporary delays in the Commissions reviews of the respective applications filed by the utilitys subsidiaries, Pepco and Delmarva Power, for state regulatory approval for the Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway (MAPP).
 
MAPP is a proposed, high-voltage, 152-mile interstate transmission project planned to originate at the Possum Point substation in northern Virginia, traverse under the Chesapeake Bay and end at the Indian River substation in Delaware.
 
The requests were filed following notification from PJM Interconnection (PJM), the regional electric grid operator, that it has established a new in-service date for MAPP.
 
PJMs notification states that the need for MAPP has moved from 2015 to the 2019-2021 timeframe. However, PJM also noted that transmission planning uncertainties could accelerate this schedule. The letter states that PJMs action does not constitute a directive by PJM to cancel or abandon the MAPP project, and also directs PHI to proceed with those development efforts reasonably necessary to allow the MAPP project to be quickly re-started
 
The notification also states that PJM will be using a new stakeholder process to evaluate its transmission planning methods, which could lead to changes in PJMs assessment of MAPPs in-service date. PJM does not expect the new evaluation to be completed until sometime in 2012.
 
 
 
 
Reliable power is critical to the economy and security of this region and the country, said PHI Chairman, President & CEO Joe Rigby. Mr. Rigby also stated that PHI remains committed to the MAPP project due to the many benefits it will provide to the region, including enhancing electric system reliability, transporting renewable wind energy from off-shore to the Mid-Atlantic region, and fueling economic growth.
 
For additional information regarding MAPP, see the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 19, 2011
PJMs letter can be accessed at
http://pjm.com/documents/~/media/documents/reports/20110818-mapp-letter.ashx
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the mid-Atlantic region, serving about 1.9 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service. PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
 
 
 
 
 




