FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120504102308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  The Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI) Presentation for the AGA Financial Forum to be held May 6-8, 2012, attached hereto as Exhibit 99, is hereby incorporated by reference.
Today, Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) and Delmarva Power & Light Company (Delmarva) filed notices of appeal of a Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) order in MPSC Case 9214 in Circuit Courts in Maryland. In the MPSC order issued on April 12, 2012, the MPSC determined that there is a need for additional generation in the state.  Specifically, the MPSC ordered Pepco, Delmarva and Baltimore Gas and Electric to enter into a long-term contract with the winning bidder of the request for proposal issued last fall.  Under the contract, the winning bidder will construct a 661 megawatt natural gas-fired combined cycle plant in Waldorf, Maryland, with a commercial operation date of June 2015.  The order specifies that the contract amount for each utility would be proportionate to their relative Standard Offer Service, or SOS, loads and that cost recovery would be from SOS customers through surcharges.  The order acknowledges concerns raised by the utilities and directs them to negotiate with the winning bidder and submit proposed changes to the contract to the MPSC for approval.  PHI has concerns about the order, including the full cost burden being placed on SOS customers who may choose to switch to other energy suppliers, as well as the impact the contract will have on the utilities balance sheets and credit metrics.  Because of these concerns, Pepco and Delmarva filed notices of appeal of this order in the Circuit Courts in Maryland.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
4  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




