FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120326171959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
(c)           On March 26, 2012, Pepco Holdings Inc. (the Company) announced that effective April 9, 2012, Frederick J. Boyle will be appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and each of its utility subsidiaries, Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) and Delmarva Power & Light Company (Delmarva) and Chief Financial Officer of Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE).  Mr. Boyle, age 54, was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DPL Inc., the holding company for Dayton Power & Light Company, from 2008 until it was acquired in 2011.  From 2006 to 2008, Mr. Boyle held a variety of positions at DPL, including Vice President, Finance, Controller, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
In connection with his appointment as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Mr. Boyle and the Company entered into a letter agreement defining the terms of Mr. Boyles employment.  The following is a description of the material terms of his employment as set forth in the letter:
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Boyle will also be entitled to participate in other of the Companys benefit plans and arrangements available generally to officers and employees of the Company, in accordance with the terms of each such plan or arrangement, including a $975 per month car allowance.
There are no transactions between the Company and Mr. Boyle reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Also on March 26, 2012, the Company announced that effective April 9, 2012, Anthony J. Kamerick, the Companys Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer of the Company, Pepco and Delmarva and Chief Regulatory Officer of ACE.  Mr. Kamerick, age 64, joined Pepco in October 1970 and has held a variety of positions, including Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from August 2002 through February 2009, and Senior Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer of the Company from March 2009 through June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick was appointed to his current position with the Company in June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick also holds similar positions with Pepco and Delmarva, and is the Chief Financial Officer of ACE, which positions he has held since June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick has also served as a director of Pepco since June 2009.
In February 2012, Mr. Kamerick announced his intent to retire from his officer and director positions with the Company and its subsidiaries in January 2013.  It is anticipated that, except as described above, Mr. Kamerick will retain his current officer and director positions with the Company's subsidiaries until his retirement in 2013.  The Company does not anticipate any changes in Mr. Kamericks compensation as a result of his promotion to Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer.
 
The Pepco Holdings, Inc. Presentation for the Analyst Conference to be held March 27, 2012, attached hereto as Exhibit 99, is hereby incorporated by reference.  The information being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
   
  
 
 
3 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

Mr. Frederick J. Boyle
2838 Margate Road
Columbus, OH  43221
Dear Fred,
It is my great pleasure to confirm the following offer of employment to you on behalf of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI, the Company).  This is an offer of at will employment at the initial terms discussed below, which have been discussed with you.  Also, this offer is subject to satisfactory results of a background check and drug test as required by PHI.  As discussed, I would ask that you sign and return this letter by Friday, March 23.
rd
Your employment at PHI will commence on April 9, 2012, as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, reporting to myself.
Employment.  
.  Your base salary will be $440,000 (Four Hundred and Forty Thousand Dollars) per year.  Your salary will be reviewed annually beginning in 2013.  You will participate in the following incentive programs according to the terms of the applicable incentive compensation plan, with initial target and maximum awards as follows:
Salary and Incentives
.  You are eligible to participate in PHIs defined benefit pension plan in accordance with its terms.  In addition, you will be eligible to participate in the PHI 2011 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP).
Retirement
.  You are eligible to participate in the qualified PHI defined contribution 401k plan.  You are also eligible to make voluntary deferrals of salary and annual incentive into the non-qualified PHI Executive and Director Deferred Compensation Plan, in accordance with the terms of the plan.
Deferred Compensation
 
 
 
 
Mr. Frederick J. Boyle
Page 2
March 21, 2012
.  You will participate in PHIs perquisite program, which currently includes:
Perquisites
.  You will be eligible to participate in PHIs Relocation Program under the terms of the plan.
Relocation
.  You will be eligible for 4 weeks of paid vacation each year, increasing based on service under the terms of the PHI Management Vacation Policy.
Vacation
.  You are eligible to participate in the PHI Change in Control Severance Plan which provides, among other provisions, three (3) times annual salary and target bonus if termination occurs as a result of change in control.
Change in Control
.  You will be able to participate in PHIs Management health and welfare benefits plans in accordance with the plans.  Our Benefits team will assist you with enrollment upon employment.
Health and Welfare Benefits
.  You will receive a signing bonus of $40,000, payable in your first regular pay check following your employment with the Company.
Signing Bonus
PHI is a great Company, and our Board and senior executive team are looking forward to working with you as we take the Company into a promising future.
Assuming you agree with the terms of this offer, please indicate your acceptance in the space provided below and return one executed copy to me as soon as possible.
Sincerely,
/s/ JOSEPH M. RIGBY
Joseph M. Rigby
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Accepted.
                                       
            /s/ FRED BOYLE                                 
      March 26, 2012                         
Fredrick J. Boyle                                                                                     Date
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





