FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120223193924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
             
 February 23, 2012              
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2012, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its operating results for the fourth quarter of 2011 and the 2011 fiscal year.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The information being furnished pursuant this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(b)           On February 23, 2012, Anthony J. Kamerick, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (and principal financial officer) of the Company, advised Pepco Holdings and the Company that he intends to retire from such positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, and as a director of Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco), in January 2013.  Mr. Kamerick joined Pepco in October 1970 and has held a variety of positions, including Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from August 2002 through February 2009, and Senior Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer of the Company from March 2009 through June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick was appointed to his current position with the Company in June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick also holds similar positions with Pepco and Delmarva Power & Light Company, and is the Chief Financial Officer of Atlantic City Electric Company, which positions he has held since June 2009.  Mr. Kamerick has also served as a director of Pepco since June 2009.
Mr. Kamerick will turn 65 in September 2012, and consistent with the Companys existing executive succession planning process, the Company is currently evaluating potential candidates to succeed Mr. Kamerick.  The Company intends to identify a successor during the next two months.  Once his successor has been selected, Mr. Kamerick will at that time resign from his existing officer positions with the Company and its subsidiaries and as a director of Pepco, and will be elected the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer, to serve until his retirement in January 2013.  In this role, Mr. Kamerick will continue to oversee the regulatory proceedings of the Companys utility subsidiaries and will continue to report to Joseph M. Rigby, the Companys Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.  The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
2 
 
 
3 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4 
 
 
 
5
 
 

 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings from continuing operations as follows:
 
 
 
2011 was a year of significant progress on our key initiatives, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  While recognizing there is still more work to be done, we are pleased that our investments to improve system reliability and the customer experience are beginning to produce tangible results.  Earnings were impacted by our increased spending on system maintenance and tree trimming, which are positively impacting our operating statistics and improving our restoration performance, as demonstrated during Hurricane Irene.  Rigby added, Throughout the year, we invested nearly $900 million in transmission and distribution infrastructure including projects focused on improving reliability and installing advanced technology.  This technology includes smart meters that will provide detailed account-specific energy use information to our customers and advanced control systems that will expedite power restoration after outages. Investments such as these are important components of our strategy to provide enhanced value to our customers and investors.
 
Rigby went on to say that it is critically important to ensure timely cost recovery and the opportunity to earn reasonable rates of return on PHIs extensive reliability investments.  We filed distribution rate cases in each of the five
 
 
 
 
electric jurisdictions we serve to help keep the rate of cost recovery in line with our rate of investment.  In addition, the filings propose cost recovery mechanisms that would reduce the time to recover reliability-related investment as well as mitigate the need to file costly, frequent rate cases. Reducing regulatory lag will continue to be a significant focus in 2012.
 
The increase in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) for the full year 2011, as compared to the full year 2010, was primarily the result of higher transmission and distribution revenue (due to higher rates driven by increased investment), lower interest expense, and higher default electricity supply margins (primarily due to an adjustment for the cost recovery of higher cash working capital costs).  Partially offsetting the earnings increases were higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense (due to increased electric system preventative maintenance and increased tree trimming) and the favorable impact of income tax adjustments in the 2010 period.
 
The decrease in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) in the fourth quarter of 2011, as compared to the 2010 quarter was primarily the result of the favorable impact of an income tax settlement and income tax adjustments in the 2010 period.
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In 2010, the Board of Directors of Pepco Holdings approved a plan for the disposition of Conectiv Energy Holding Company.  The plan consisted of the sale of the wholesale power generation business, which was completed on July 1, 2010, and the liquidation of all of Conectiv Energys remaining assets and businesses, which has been substantially completed.  As a result of the plan of disposition, Conectiv Energys results of operations for the 2011 and 2010 quarterly and annual periods are reported as discontinued operations.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the net loss from discontinued operations was $3 million.
 
Special Items and Other Non-GAAP Adjustments
 
Management believes the special items and other non-GAAP adjustments shown below are not representative of Pepco Holdings ongoing business operations.  The other non-GAAP adjustments include mark-to-market losses resulting from economic hedging activities associated with the retail energy supply business of Pepco Energy Services, and the impact of adopting a tax law change in the District of Columbia.  The effect of these items was excluded from the 2011 earnings guidance range. Management uses earnings excluding special items and other non-GAAP adjustments and related per share data internally to evaluate Pepco Holdings period-over-period financial performance and, therefore, believes that this information is useful to investors.  The presentation of earnings excluding special items and other non-GAAP adjustments and related per share data is intended to complement, and should not be considered as an alternative to, reported earnings in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to Earnings Excluding Special Items and Other Non-GAAP Adjustments
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings today announced an earnings guidance range for 2012 of between $1.15 and $1.30 per share.  The guidance range:
 
 
           assumes normal weather conditions, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Events
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mark-to-market losses as of December 31, 2011 are expected to reverse upon Pepco Energy Services delivery of the underlying commodity to its retail customers.
 
Regulatory  Decisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory  Pending Cases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2011 and 2010 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings Inc. will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results on Friday, Feb. 24 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at  or by calling 1-866-713-8395 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 28200193.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-597-5309, using the same pass code, 28200193.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 39586558.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 39586558.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's website, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at  promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
 
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 2 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
 
Some of the statements contained in this news release with respect to Pepco Holdings, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric, including each of their respective subsidiaries (each, a Reporting Company), are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  These factors should be read together with the risk factors included in the Risk Factors section of each Reporting Companys annual and quarterly reports filed in 2011, and investors should refer to these risk factor sections.  All of such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this news release was released, and each Reporting Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after such date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The factors described above should not be construed as exhaustive.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


