FILE:POM/POM-8K-20121023161142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
                October 23, 2012                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
 
On October 23, 2012, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (the NJBPU) approved a stipulation of settlement signed by the parties (the Settlement) with respect to a petition filed by Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI), to increase ACEs electric distribution rates.  The Settlement provides for an annual increase in ACEs electric distribution base rates by the net amount of approximately $28 million, based on a specified return on equity of 9.75%.  The net increase consists of a rate increase of approximately $44 million, less a deduction from base rates of approximately $16 million through a credit rider expected to expire on August 31, 2013, which is designed to refund to customers certain excess depreciation reserve funds as previously directed by the NJBPU (the Excess Depreciation Rider). Upon expiration of the Excess Depreciation Rider, ACE will not realize an increase in operating income because the resulting increase in revenues will be offset by a substantially similar increase in depreciation expense. The Settlement also provides for an increase of approximately $2 million in sales-and-use taxes related to the increase in base rates, and allows ACE to fully amortize over a three-year period the approximately $7.7 million in costs incurred as a result of Hurricane Irene in August 2011. The new rates will become effective for utility services rendered on and after November 1, 2012.
 
The Settlement also provides for full cost recovery pursuant to ACEs initial Infrastructure Investment Program (IIP) filing.  In exchange for the increase in infrastructure investment, the NJBPU, through the IIP, allowed ACE to recover its infrastructure investment capital expenditures through a special rate outside the normal rate recovery mechanism of a base rate filing.  The Settlement requires ACE to withdraw its October 2011 IIP petition, which requested the NJBPU to extend and expand the IIP, without prejudice to file such request again in the future.
 
PHI intends to make the NJBPUs order approving the settlement agreement available on PHIs Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after it has been made publicly available by the NJBPU.  Investors may access a copy of this order (among other documents and information) through the Regulatory Filings hyperlink on the Investor Relations page of PHIs Web site (http://www.pepcoholdings.com).
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements include declarations regarding PHIs and ACEs intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations.  In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause PHI or its subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements
 
2 
 
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
 
The forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond PHIs or its subsidiaries control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and other statements in PHIs and ACEs annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended to include the executive compensation and other information required by Part III of Form 10-K (which information originally had been omitted as permitted by that form), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in PHIs and ACEs quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2012, and investors should refer to such risk factors and other statements in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and PHI and ACE do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for PHI or ACE to predict all such factors, nor can they assess the impact of any such factor on their business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 



