FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120806215613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
              
 August 7, 2012               
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 7, 2012, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its operating results for the second quarter of 2012.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The information being furnished pursuant this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  Exhibit 99.2, Pepco Holdings, Inc. Earnings Conference Call Presentation and Exhibit 99.3, Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI) Presentation for the Midwest Non-Deal Roadshow to be held August 9-10, 2012, each attached hereto, are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012 earnings from continuing operations as follows:
 
 
The decrease in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) in the second quarter of 2012, as compared to the 2011 quarter, was primarily due to the favorable impact of income tax adjustments in the 2011 period for prior tax years, higher Power Delivery operation and maintenance expense (primarily due to higher employee-related costs, higher customer support services costs, and a favorable insurance adjustment in the 2011 period), and lower Pepco Energy Services earnings (primarily due to the wind-down of the retail energy supply business and lower energy services project activity).  Partially offsetting these negative factors was higher electric transmission and distribution revenue due to higher rates driven by increased investment.  The decrease in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) for the six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the same period in the prior year, was driven by essentially the same factors as the quarterly results.
 
 
1 (more)
 
 
 Our second quarter financial results were in line with our expectations and we continue to make good progress on executing our strategic plan, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  However, we recently received decisions in our Pepco and Delmarva Power distribution base rate cases in Maryland and found those to be disappointing.  The Commission rejected our proposals aimed at timely cost recovery and authorized a return on equity for Pepco that is among the lowest in the country.  We expect to file our next round of rate cases in Maryland in the fourth quarter of this year.  A fair and reasonable outcome in the next round of cases will be crucial to continue the pace of investment in Maryland.  We remain committed to system reliability and improving the customer experience, but expect timely cost recovery and reasonable regulatory returns.  Given the decisions in the Maryland rate cases, we will extend the current hiring freeze and rigorously review our overall operating expenses in Maryland.  We remain committed to delivering earnings sufficient to maintain our current dividend level.
 
Rigby also noted the impact of a powerful storm that struck the service territory.  In late June, our electric system was once again tested with the arrival of a violent and destructive storm.  The high winds uprooted trees across our service territories, causing significant damage to the electric system.  Approximately 702,000 customers were without power at the height of the storm, or about 38 percent of our electric customers.  By many accounts, this storm was the most destructive storm to strike the Mid-Atlantic region in almost a decade.  Our efforts to enhance reliability and customer service over the past two years proved beneficial during the restoration process.  Rigby noted that given the timing of the storm, the impact to the second quarter results was negligible, as most of the costs incurred will be reflected in the third quarter.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Management believes the adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data are representative of Pepco Holdings ongoing business operations.  Management uses this information internally to evaluate Pepco Holdings period-over-period financial performance and, therefore, believes that this information is useful to investors.  The presentation of adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data is intended to complement, and should not be considered as an alternative to, reported earnings and related per share data presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Information to Adjusted Financial Information
 
 
 
 
2 (more)
 
 
The income tax effect with respect to the foregoing adjustments was calculated using a composite income tax rate of approximately 40 percent.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings today reaffirmed its earnings guidance range for 2012 of between $1.15 and $1.30 per share.  The guidance range:
 
 
 
 
Recent Events
 
Operations
 
 
 
3 (more)
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
 
 
4 (more)
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2012 and 2011 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at .
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results on Tuesday, August 7 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at  or by calling 1-866-314-5232 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 60898926.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-213-8052, using the same pass code, 60898926.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 30946731.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 30946731.  An audio archive will be available at PHIs website, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at  promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
5 (more)
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 2 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Some of the statements contained in this news release with respect to Pepco Holdings, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric, including each of their respective subsidiaries (each, a Reporting Company), are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companys or their subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  These factors should be read together with the risk factors included in the Risk Factors section and other statements contained in each Reporting Companys annual report, as amended, filed in 2012, and quarterly reports filed in 2012, and investors should refer to these risk factor sections and other statements.  All of such factors and forward-looking statements are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this news release was issued, and none of the Reporting Companies undertakes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies or their subsidiaries) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
6 (more)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 (more)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 (more)
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
(more)
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION  continued
 
 
 
 
 
10 (more)
 
 
 
 
 
11
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
12
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
13
(more)
 
 
POWER DELIVERY SALES AND REVENUES
 
 
14
(more)
 
 
POWER DELIVERY  CUSTOMERS
 
 
 
15
(more)
 
 
PEPCO ENERGY SERVICES
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
# # # # #

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


