FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120503175624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
             
 May 4, 2012              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   On May 4, 2012, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its operating results for the first quarter of 2012.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The information being furnished pursuant this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
   
   
 
   Exhibit 99.2, attached hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference.  The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
   
   
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported first quarter 2012 earnings from continuing operations as follows:
 
 
Our earnings from continuing operations reflect our investment in utility infrastructure, as well as the positive impacts of tax adjustments which more than mitigated the effects of the mild winter weather we experienced in our service area, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  During the quarter, we continued to make progress on a number of important Power Delivery initiatives.  The investments made to improve service reliability are on track and we continue to see positive trends in the operating performance of our electric system.  Our Blueprint for the Future initiatives are moving forward as planned, with smart meter installations completed in Delaware and continuing in the District of Columbia and Maryland.  Rigby added, For the remainder of 2012, we will remain focused on improving reliability and customer satisfaction, and continue to aggressively pursue constructive regulatory outcomes and frameworks that allow us to earn our authorized rates of return on our investments.
 
 
 
 
 
The increase in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) in the first quarter of 2012, as compared to the 2011 quarter, was primarily the result of the favorable impact of income tax adjustments, and higher transmission and distribution revenue due to higher rates driven by increased investment.  Partially offsetting these positive factors was lower distribution revenue due to lower electric distribution sales in our service territories that do not have revenue decoupled from sales, primarily from the effect of milder than normal winter weather.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Management believes the adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data are representative of Pepco Holdings ongoing business operations.  Management uses this information internally to evaluate Pepco Holdings period-over-period financial performance and, therefore, believes that this information is useful to investors.  The presentation of adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data is intended to complement, and should not be considered as an alternative to, reported earnings and related per share data presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Information to Adjusted Financial Information
 
The income tax effect with respect to the foregoing adjustment was calculated using a composite income tax rate of approximately 40%.
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings today reaffirmed its earnings guidance range for 2012 of between $1.15 and $1.30 per share.  The guidance range:
 
 
   
 
 
Recent Events
 
Operations
 
 
 
 
Financing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2012 and 2011 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Friday, May 4 at 11 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at  or by calling 1-800-638-4930 before 10:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 98364747.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-614-3944, using the same pass code 98364747.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 75089656.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 75089656.  An audio archive will be available at PHI's website, .
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at  promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 2 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
 
Some of the statements contained in this news release with respect to Pepco Holdings, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric, including each of their respective subsidiaries (each, a Reporting Company), are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companys or their subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  These factors should be read together with the risk factors included in the Risk Factors section and other statements contained in each Reporting Companys annual report, as amended, filed in 2012, and quarterly reports filed in 2012, and investors should refer to these risk factor sections and other statements.  All of such factors and forward-looking statements are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this news release was issued, and each Reporting Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after such date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies or its subsidiaries) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The factors described above should not be construed as exhaustive.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
Services and $4 million for Corporate and Other.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POWER DELIVERY SALES AND REVENUES
11
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
# # # # #
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





