FILE:POM/POM-8K-20121105215204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
              
 November 6, 2012               
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 6, 2012, Pepco Holdings, Inc. issued a news release announcing its operating results for the third quarter of 2012.  The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The information being furnished pursuant this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference in response to this Item 2.02.
The information being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  Exhibit 99.2 is hereby incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) today reported third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012 earnings from continuing operations as follows:
 
 
The increase in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) in the third quarter of 2012, as compared to the 2011 quarter, was largely due to higher electric transmission and distribution revenue (primarily due to higher rates driven by increased investment), lower expenses (primarily due to the establishment of a regulatory asset in 2012 for recovery of storm restoration costs incurred in 2011), and  Partially offsetting these positive factors were lower Pepco Energy Services earnings due to the wind-down of the retail energy supply business and lower energy services project activity.
the early termination of one of the seven cross-border lease investments (after-tax gain of $9 million).  
 
Our third quarter financial results reflect continued progress on executing our strategic plan, including our investments in Power Delivery infrastructure to improve system reliability and customer service.  The gain on the early termination of certain cross-border energy leases also contributed to higher earnings, said Joseph M. Rigby, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  Over the next five years, we expect to spend approximately $5.9 billion on investments aimed at improving system reliability, enhancing customer service, and installing advanced technologies
.  Investments such as these are important components of our strategy to provide value to our customers and investors.
 
1
(more)
 
 
Rigby continued by noting that it is critically important to the Company that the regulators ensure timely cost recovery and the opportunity to earn reasonable rates of return on Pepco Holdings extensive investments.  As we complete our current round of distribution rate cases this year, we recognize that an additional cycle of rate cases across the jurisdictions we serve is necessary to help keep the rate of cost recovery in line with our rate of investment.  Reducing regulatory lag will continue to be a significant focus going forward.
 
The decrease in adjusted net income from continuing operations (Non-GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, as compared to the same period in the prior year, was driven by lower Pepco Energy Services earnings due to the wind-down of the retail energy supply business and lower energy services project activity, partially offset by higher electric transmission and distribution revenue (primarily due to higher rates driven by increased investment).
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
Management believes the adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data are representative of Pepco Holdings ongoing business operations.  Management uses this information internally to evaluate Pepco Holdings period-over-period financial performance and, therefore, believes that this information is useful to investors.  The presentation of adjusted net income from continuing operations and related per share data is intended to complement, and should not be considered as an alternative to, reported earnings and related per share data presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Information to Adjusted Financial Information
 
 
2
(more)
 
 
 
The income tax effect with respect to the foregoing adjustments was calculated using a composite income tax rate of approximately 40 percent.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Pepco Holdings today narrowed its earnings guidance range for 2012 to $1.15 to $1.25 per share from $1.15 to $1.30 per share.  The guidance range:
 
 
 
 
 
Recent Events
 
Operations
 
 
3
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
(more)
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
 
 
5
(more)
 
 
Cross-Border Energy Leases
 
 
Further details regarding changes in consolidated earnings between 2012 and 2011 can be found in the following schedules.  Additional information regarding financial results and recent regulatory events can be found in the Pepco Holdings, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and which is also available at http://
www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.  Pepco Holdings, Inc. routinely makes available this and other important information on this website, which is a key channel of distribution for Pepco Holdings, Inc. to reach its public investors and to disclose material, non-public information.  Information on this website is not a part of this news release.
 
6
(more)
 
 
Conference Call for Investors
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. will host a conference call to discuss third quarter results on Tuesday, November 6 at 10 a.m. E.T.  Investors, members of the media and other interested persons may access the conference call on the Internet at or by calling 1-800-901-5241 before 9:55 a.m.  The pass code for the call is 58971508.  International callers may access the call by dialing 1-617-786-2963, using the same pass code, 58971508.  An on-demand replay will be available for seven days following the call.  To hear the replay, dial 1-888-286-8010 and enter pass code 72397069.  International callers may access the replay by dialing 1-617-801-6888 and entering the same pass code 72397069  An audio archive will be available at PHIs website,
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
.
 
Note:  If any non-GAAP financial information (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G) is used during the quarterly earnings conference call, a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a reconciliation of the differences will be available at promptly after the conclusion of the conference call.
http://www.pepcoholdings.com/investors
 
 
: Pepco Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: POM) is one of the largest energy delivery companies in the Mid-Atlantic region, serving about 2 million customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland and New Jersey. PHI subsidiaries Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric provide regulated electricity service; Delmarva Power also provides natural gas service.  PHI also provides energy efficiency and renewable energy services through Pepco Energy Services.
About PHI
 
Some of the statements contained in this news release with respect to Pepco Holdings, Pepco, Delmarva Power and Atlantic City Electric, including each of their respective subsidiaries (each, a Reporting Company), are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companys or their subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements should be read together with the risk factors included in the Risk Factors section and other statements contained in each Reporting Companys annual report, as amended, filed in 2012, and quarterly reports filed in 2012, and investors should refer to these risk factor sections and other statements.  All of such factors and forward-looking statements are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this news release was issued, and none of the Reporting Companies undertakes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies or their subsidiaries) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
7
(more)
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc.
Earnings Per Share Variance
2012 / 2011
 
 
 
8
(more)
 
 
Pepco Holdings, Inc. Earnings Per Share Variance 2012 / 2011
 
 
 
9  
(more) 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
(a)      
Total Assets in this column includes Pepco Holdings goodwill balance of $1.4 billion, all of which is allocated to Power Delivery for purposes of assessing impairment. Total assets also include capital expenditures related to certain hardware and software expenditures which primarily benefit Power Delivery. These expenditures are recorded as incurred in the Corporate and Other segment and are allocated to Power Delivery once the assets are placed in service.  Corporate and Other includes intercompany amounts of $(3) million for Operating Revenue, $(4) million for Operating Expenses, $(7) million for Interest Income, $(5) million for Interest Expense and $(1) million for Preferred Stock Dividends.
(b)      
Includes depreciation and amortization expense of $122 million, consisting of $114 million for Power Delivery, $2 million for Pepco Energy
Services and $6 million for Corporate and Other.
(c)       
Includes impairment losses of $2 million pre-tax ($1 million after-tax) at Pepco Energy Services associated with the combustion turbines at Buzzard Point.
(d)      
Includes $39 million pre-tax ($9 million after-tax) gain from the early termination of finance leases held in trust.
(e)      
Includes a $16 million reversal of previously recognized tax benefits associated with the early termination of finance leases held in trust.
 
 
(a)       Total Assets in this column includes Pepco Holdings goodwill balance of $1.4 billion, all of which is allocated to Power Delivery for purposes of assessing impairment. Total assets also include capital expenditures related to certain hardware and software expenditures which primarily benefit Power Delivery. These expenditures are recorded as incurred in the Corporate and Other segment and are allocated to Power Delivery once the assets are placed in service.  Corporate and Other includes intercompany amounts of $(5) million for Operating Revenue, $(6) million for Operating Expenses, $(7) million for Interest Income, $(6) million for Interest Expense and $(1) million for Preferred Stock Dividends.
 
(b)     Includes depreciation and amortization expense of $115 million, consisting of $107 million for Power Delivery, $4 million for Pepco Energy Services and $4 million for Corporate and Other.
 
10
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION  continued
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
12
(more)
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
13
(more)
 
 
PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
14
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
15
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
16
(more)
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
# # # # #
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


