FILE:POM/POM-8K-20121109164328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
THIS COMBINED FORM 8-K IS BEING SEPARATELY FURNISHED/FILED BY EACH OF PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC., POTOMAC ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, DELMARVA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY AND ATLANTIC CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY.  INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN RELATING TO ANY INDIVIDUAL REGISTRANT IS FURNISHED/FILED BY SUCH REGISTRANT ON ITS OWN BEHALF. NO REGISTRANT MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION AS TO INFORMATION RELATING TO ANY OTHER REGISTRANT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  Exhibit 99, Pepco Holdings, Inc. Presentation 47 EEI Financial Conference, is hereby incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01.
-
th
Beginning on October 29, 2012, Hurricane Sandy affected the service territories of Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco), Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL) and Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE), the regulated utility subsidiaries of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI).  Approximately 340,000 of PHIs electric customers were without power at the height of the storm, including approximately 211,000 customers in ACEs service territory.
The total incremental storm restoration costs of Pepco, DPL and ACE associated with this storm are preliminarily estimated to range between $45 million and $65 million in the aggregate.  A portion of these costs will be charged as capital expenditures, with the balance being (i) deferred as a regulatory asset in jurisdictions where management believes that recovery of these incremental storm restoration costs is probable, or (ii) charged to other operation and maintenance expense.  Each utility intends to pursue recovery of its portion of these incremental storm restoration costs in its respective regulatory jurisdiction or jurisdictions during the next cycle of distribution base rate cases.
The foregoing estimate of total incremental storm restoration costs was developed using estimates of costs related to mutual assistance and contractor services, materials and supplies, and other expenses. Actual costs may vary from these estimates.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K with respect to PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE (each, a Reporting Company), including each of their respective subsidiaries, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding the intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations of one or more Reporting Companies or their subsidiaries. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companies or their subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
 
 
2
 
 
 
The forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and other statements in each Reporting Companys as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in each Reporting Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, as filed with the SEC, and investors should refer to such risk factors and other statements in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended to include the executive compensation and other information required by Part III of Form 10-K (which information originally had been omitted as permitted by that form),
 
Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this Current Report on Form 8-K was filed with the SEC, and none of the Reporting Companies undertakes an obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for a Reporting Company to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on such Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries business (viewed independently or together with the business or businesses of some or all of the other Reporting Companies or their subsidiaries) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
 
 
4
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5
 
 
6

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


