FILE:POM/POM-8K-20121205160545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
THIS COMBINED FORM 8-K IS BEING SEPARATELY FILED BY EACH OF PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. AND DELMARVA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY.  INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN RELATING TO ANY INDIVIDUAL REGISTRANT IS FILED BY SUCH REGISTRANT ON ITS OWN BEHALF.  NO REGISTRANT MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION AS TO INFORMATION RELATING TO ANY OTHER REGISTRANT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
At a meeting held on November 29, 2012, the Delaware Public Service Commission (the DPSC) approved a proposed settlement agreement (the Settlement) with respect to an application filed by Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI), to increase DPLs electric distribution rates in Delaware.  The Settlement provides for an annual increase in DPLs electric distribution base rates by $22 million, based on a stipulated return on equity of 9.75%.  During 2012, DPL, with the approval of the DPSC, placed an aggregate of $24.8 million in requested rate increases into effect, subject to refund and pending the DPSCs final order with respect to the application.  DPL will adjust the amounts billed that exceed the increase approved by the DPSC through a bill credit.
The Settlement also resolves an outstanding standard offer service (SOS) tax-related billing underrecovery, which will result in an additional recovery of approximately $3.4 million, to be collected by DPL in SOS rates ratably over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2013.  The Settlement also provides for phase-in recovery of the costs associated with DPLs advanced metering infrastructure and demand response equipment through base rates over a two-year period, assuming specific milestones are met and pursuant to the following schedule: 20% of the regulatory asset will be put into rates on January 1, 2013, 50% of the remaining regulatory asset will be put into rates on June 1, 2013, and the remainder will be put into rates on June 1, 2014.
Furthermore, as a part of the Settlement, the parties agreed to discuss several issues, including:
When the DPSC releases its order approving the Settlement, PHI and DPL intend to make this order available on PHIs website (http://www.pepcoholdings.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after it has been made publicly available by the DPSC.  When it is made publicly available, investors may access a copy of this order (among other documents and information) through the Regulatory Filings hyperlink on this website.  Information on PHIs website should not be considered a part of or incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K, and references to PHIs website herein are intended to be made through inactive hyperlinks.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K with respect to PHI and DPL (each, a Reporting Company), including PHIs subsidiaries, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby and by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding the intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations of one or more Reporting Companies and such subsidiaries. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause one or more Reporting Companies and such subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.   Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
 
 
2
 
 
 
The forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond each Reporting Companys or such subsidiaries control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and other statements in each Reporting Companys as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and in each Reporting Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, as filed with the SEC, and investors should refer to such risk factors and other statements in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended to include the executive compensation and other information required by Part III of Form 10-K (which information originally had been omitted as permitted by that form),
Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date this Current Report on Form 8-K was filed with the SEC, and neither PHI nor DPL undertakes an obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for PHI or DPL to predict all such factors, nor can the impact of any such factor be assessed on a Reporting Companys or its subsidiaries business (viewed independently or together) or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
 
3
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4


