FILE:POM/POM-8K-20120827165945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
                August 24, 2012                      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
On August 24, 2012, Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI), on behalf of its subsidiaries, Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) and Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL, and, together with PHI and Pepco, collectively, the Company), received notice that the board of PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) has terminated the Mid-Atlantic Power Pathway (MAPP) project .  The MAPP project was a proposed high-voltage 152-mile interstate transmission project designed to originate at the Possum Point substation in northern Virginia, traverse under the Chesapeake Bay, and end at the Indian River substation in Delaware.
and removed it from PJMs regional transmission expansion plan
PJM is the regional transmission organization that is responsible for planning the transmission grid and coordinating the movement of wholesale electricity within a region consisting of all or parts of 13 states and the District of Columbia, including the service territories of Pepco and DPL.  In 2007, PJM directed the Company to construct the MAPP project to address the reliability needs of the regions transmission system.  However, in August 2011, PJM revised the in-service date of the MAPP project from June 1, 2015 to the 2019 to 2021 time period, but retained the project in its 2011 regional transmission expansion plan.
As a result of the most recent PJM decision, which was undertaken in connection with PJMs review of its 2012 regional transmission expansion plan, the Company intends to withdraw pending applications related to the MAPP project filed with the Maryland Public Service Commission.  The Company is also in the process of re-evaluating its five-year capital expenditures plan, which included $205 million of MAPP-related expenditures for the period from 2012 to 2016.  The Company anticipates that it will provide an update of its forecasted construction expenditures by the end of 2012.
As of June 30, 2012, total capital expenditures for the MAPP project were approximately $101 million.  The Company intends to seek recovery of abandoned MAPP expenditures through a filing to be submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Consistent with the incentive previously granted to the MAPP project by FERC, the filing will request recovery of abandoned costs prudently incurred in connection with the project.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some of the statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements include declarations regarding the Companys intents, beliefs, estimates and current expectations.  In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, might, will, should, could, expects, intends, assumes, seeks to, plans, anticipates, believes, projects, estimates, predicts, potential, future, goal, objective, or continue or the negative of such terms or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company or its subsidiaries actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements
 
2 
 
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Therefore, forward-looking statements are not guarantees or assurances of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond the Companys or its subsidiaries control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and other statements in PHIs, Pepcos and DPLs annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended to include the executive compensation and other information required by Part III of Form 10-K (which information originally had been omitted as permitted by that form), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in PHIs, Pepcos and DPLs quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2012, and investors should refer to such risk factors and other statements in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and PHI, Pepco and DPL do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for PHI, Pepco and DPL to predict all such factors, nor can they assess the impact of any such factor on their business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.
 
4 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
5
 



