Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Electrical Products The Electrical Products segment manufactures, markets and sells electrical and circuit protection products, including fittings, support systems, enclosures, specialty connectors, wiring devices, plugs, receptacles, lighting fixtures and controls, hazardous duty electrical equipment, fuses, emergency lighting, fire detection and mass notification systems and security products for use in residential, commercial and industrial construction, maintenance and repair applications. The segment also manufactures, markets and sells products for use by utilities and in industry for electrical power transmission and distribution, including distribution switchgear, transformers, transformer terminations and accessories, capacitors, voltage regulators, surge arresters, energy automation solutions and other related power systems components. The principal raw material requirements include: steel, copper, aluminum, aluminum ingots, brass, tin, lead, plastics, electronic components and insulating materials including transformer oil. These raw materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. The segments product lines are marketed directly to original equipment manufacturers and utilities and to a variety of end users through major distributor chains, retail home centers, hardware outlets and thousands of independent distributors. 3 Table of Contents Tools The Tools segment manufactures, markets and sells hand tools for industrial, construction, electronics and consumer markets; automated assembly systems for industrial markets; and electric and pneumatic industrial power tools, related electronics and software control and monitoring systems for general industry, primarily automotive and aerospace manufacturers. The principal raw material requirements include: flat and bar stock steel, brass, copper, fiberglass, aluminum, metal castings and forgings, wood, plastic pellets and plastic sheet. These materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries. Demand for nonpowered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels and industrial activity in major industrial countries and by consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production and general industrial production. The segments products are sold by a company sales force, independent distributors and retailers. 4 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT Electrical Products Major Products and Brands Access Cabinets, E2 Cabinets and Enviroshield electrical enclosures. Arktite and eXLink plugs and receptacles. Ametrix, Corelite and Neo Ray indirect lighting products. ARIES wireless communication for vacuum interrupter, distribution switchgear. Arrow Hart industrial plugs and connectors. Aspire and Siena decorative wiring devices. Aspire RF radio frequency controls, switches and receptacles. AtLite commercial, exit and emergency lighting. B Line support systems, enclosures, fasteners. Burton undersea connectors. Bussmann and Buss electrical and electronic fuses. Cam Lok electrical connectors. Cannon Technologies and Cybectec software and automation technologies. Capri cable accessories and flexible conduits. CEAG emergency lighting systems and explosion protected electrical materials. Cent R Rail and Redi Rail metal rack units and cable trays. Champ and Hazard Gard HID and fluorescent lighting. Chico conduit sealing compound. Clarity LED architectural lighting fixtures. Coiltronics inductors and transformers. Combined Technologies current limiting fuses. Condulet fittings and outlet bodies. Cooper Fire, Fulleon and Nugelec fire detection systems. Cooper Power Systems distribution transformers, power capacitors, voltage regulators, surge arresters and SCADA master stations. Cooper Wiring Devices sockets, connectors and wall plates. Crompton lighting fixtures. Crouse Hinds and CEAG electrical construction materials and Crouse Hinds aviation lighting products. CUBEFuse fuses, fuse holders and fuse boxes. DLS electrical wiring and control systems. Domex electrical construction materials. Domex Bond Rojo coated conduit system (total protection against corrosion). Domex Ground (ground systems). Dura Cooper and Dura Green epoxy coatings. Edisol fluid used in capacitors. Edison and Edison Pro relays and fusegear. Edison Series Metering residential and commercial meter bases. Eletromec DIN style fuses. ELLK 92 explosion protected fluorescent light fixture. Emerald consumer recessed and track lighting. EMSA power transformers. EnviroVR voltage regulator filled with Envirotemp FR3. Envirotemp dielectric fluids. EX power capacitors. EX Cell and NexT industrial enclosures. Exactra panel boards. Fail Safe high abuse, clean room and vandal resistant lighting fixtures. F.A.S.T. underfloor cable tray system. Flex Station panel boards. Flextray wire mesh cable tray. FR3 dielectric fluid. Fusetron electric fuses and protectors. GH specialty connectors. General Connectors military connectors. Grate Lock interlocking plank grating system. GridAdvisor remote detection of system faults. Grip Strut safety grating. GS Metals wire management and support systems. Halo recessed and track lighting fixtures. Hart Lock electrical receptacles, caps, connectors and accessories. Hyundai explosion proof electrical products. INVUE outdoor architectural lighting. io Lighting LED architectural lighting fixtures. IriS lighting systems. JSB, Luminox and Menvier emergency lighting and fire detection systems. Karp, Edison, Mercury and BS electrical fuses. Kwik Wire cable support systems. Kyle distribution switchgear. Limitron electric fuses. Low Peak electric fuses. Lumire specification grade landscape lighting. MadahCom WAVES notification solutions. Magnum terminal strips and disconnect blocks. MagneX interrupting device. McGraw Edison and Lumark indoor and outdoor lighting. McGraw Edison transformer components, cable accessories and fuses. MEDC signals and alarms. Media Sync multi media wiring systems Metalux fluorescent lighting. Mobile X Ray specialty plugs and receptacles. Mini Line molded to cable miniature connectors. MWS modular wiring systems. Myers electrical hubs. Nortem electrical construction materials. NOVA reclosers, sectionalizers and switches. Novitas occupancy sensors and switch packs. Omnex radio remote control products and industrial wireless networking solutions. Optima fuseholders. PCI digital lighting controls. Perf O Grip plank metal grating. Polaron intelligent lighting control solutions. Portfolio architectural recessed lighting. Posi Break electrical connectors. Posi Lok electrical panel units. Power Lock wiring devices, receptacles, caps and covers. PowerPlus panel boards. PowerStor carbon aerogel supercapacitors. Pretronica and Univel emergency lighting and power systems. RCM cable management systems. Regalsafe signaling and life saving apparatus. Regent security lighting systems. Roam Secure personal and regional alerting. Roam Secure RSAN text based alerting and mass notification systems. Royer wiring devices, sockets and switches. Ruff in prefabricated mounting and support systems. SAFEPATH voice evacuation systems and accessories. Scantronic and Menvier security systems. Selectcom communications modules. Shaper specification and commercial grade lighting fixtures. Shock Sentry circuit protective devices. SMP substation modernization platform. SpecOne panel boards. Spectra panel boards. Stabex explosion protected torch. Streetworks outdoor lighting. Subgate mini remote terminal units. Sure Lites exit and emergency lighting. Sure Power DC electrical system management products. SurgBloc electrical voltage receptacles and surge suppressors. Traction Tread perforated panels. TransX transient voltage protection devices. TrueCycle asset monitoring. UltraSIL surge arresters. VaporGard incandescent clear globe lighting fixtures. VariGap and VariStar surge arresters. Viking miniature circular connectors. VSS visual substation. WAVES mass notification systems and accessories. Wheelock notification appliances, devices and signals. Willsher Quick electrical enclosures. WPI connectors and cable assemblies. Yukon software platform. Tools Major Products and Brands Airetool, Automated Systems, Cleco, DGD, Dotco,Gardner Denver*, and Rotor Tool industrial power tools and assembly equipment. Apex screwdriver bits, impact sockets and universal joints. Belzer pliers, wrenches, sockets, and hex keys. Brewer Titchener blocks (chain line). Campbell chain products. Caulkmaster caulking dispenser. Collins machetes, shovels and axes. Crescent pliers and wrenches. Diamond farrier tools and horseshoes. Disston pliers. Erem precision cutters and tweezers. Kahnetics dispensing systems. Lufkin measuring tapes. Master Power industrial air tools. Merrill plate clamps (chain line). Metronix servos and drive controls. Nicholson files, saws, pliers, wrenches, tapes, screwdrivers, sockets, and drill bits. Plumb hammers. Utica torque measuring and controls. Weller soldering equipment. Wire Wrap solderless connection equipment. Wiss and H.K. Porter cutting products. Xcelite screwdrivers and nutdrivers. * Gardner Denver is a registered trademark of Gardner Denver, Inc. and is used by Cooper Industries under license. 5 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT (Continued) ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Major Markets Fuses and circuit protection products are utilized in products for the construction, industrial, transportation and consumer markets and to manufacturers in the electrical, electronic, telecommunications and transportation industries. Lighting fixtures are utilized in residential construction, industrial, institutional and commercial building complexes, shopping centers, parking lots, roadways, and sports facilities. Electrical power products are used by utilities and commercial and industrial power users. Electrical construction materials are used in commercial, residential and industrial projects, by utilities, airports and wastewater treatment plants and in the process and energy industries. Emergency lighting, fire detection and security systems are installed in residential, commercial and industrial applications. Support systems and enclosures are used in industrial, commercial and telecommunications complexes. Wiring devices are used in the construction, renovation, maintenance and repair of residential, commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors for use in general construction and renovation, plant maintenance, process and energy applications, shopping centers, parking lots, sports facilities, and data processing and telecommunications systems; through distributors and direct to utilities and manufacturers for use in electronic equipment for consumer, industrial, government and military applications; through distributors and direct to retail home centers and hardware outlets; and direct to original equipment manufacturers of appliances, tools, machinery and electronic equipment. TOOLS Major Markets Power tools and assembly systems are used by general industrial manufacturers, particularly durable goods producers and original equipment manufacturers, such as those in the aerospace and automobile industries. Hand tools are used in a variety of industrial, electronics, agricultural, construction and consumer applications. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors and agents to general industry, particularly automotive and aircraft; through distributors and wholesalers to hardware stores, lumberyards and department stores; and direct to original equipment manufacturers, home centers, specialty stores, department stores, mass merchandisers and hardware outlets. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and performance are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Businesses Are Subject to Competitive Pressures. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service, innovation and or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our 6 Table of Contents competitors for certain products have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for Our Products Is Sensitive to the Economic Conditions in the Markets We Serve. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction and renovation markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. Demand for non powered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels, industrial activity and consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production. Reduced demand due to economic and market conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Development and Introduction of New Products and Solutions Affect our Ability to Grow Revenues and Improve Profitability. Development and introduction of new products that increase our customers productivity and efficiency, provide enhanced energy efficiency, introduce new technology solutions, enhance safety and conform to electrical standards in regions and local countries contribute significantly to our revenue growth and profitability. We continually invest in new products and solutions and are not dependent upon the success of any one product or solution. However, our overall success depends on continuous new products and solutions being introduced and accepted by our customers. Price Increases or Significant Shortages of Raw Materials and Components Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs and the Competitive Position of Our Products. Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, aluminum, electronic components and plastics and, to a lesser degree brass, tin, lead, fiberglass, wood and insulating materials including transformer oil. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place requires that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third party suppliers or joint venture operations in low cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. We believe that our operations in emerging markets such as China, India and Malaysia are subject to greater risks related to these political and economic uncertainties as compared to most countries where Cooper has operations. 7 Table of Contents Our Key Strategic Initiatives Affect Our Ability to Grow Revenues, Control Costs and Improve Productivity. Our operating model is built on a platform of key strategic initiatives that are designed to grow revenues, control costs and improve productivity. Our ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives affects our revenues and operating costs. Also, our operations could be disrupted by manufacturing rationalizations and system conversions relating to the implementation of the Enterprise Business System. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses. We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Liability Exposure for Asbestos Related Claims. We have owned businesses that produced and sold products that contained asbestos. We, therefore, have potential liability arising from individuals claiming illness from exposure to asbestos. Insurance policies satisfy portions of claim settlements and related legal costs. We have reached a proposed settlement agreement, subject to court approval, that provides for us to resolve asbestos claims arising from our former Abex Friction Products business by participating in a 524(g) trust that is part of Federal Mogul Corporations bankruptcy plan of reorganization. If our participation in the 524(g) trust is not approved, we will adjust the estimates of our recorded liabilities and insurance recoveries related to the matter. Those adjustments may be significant. We Could Incur a Material Amount of Taxes if There Are Unfavorable Changes in the Tax Laws or Their Interpretation. Changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. On May 22, 2002, we reorganized Cooper and became a publicly traded Bermuda company. Among other benefits, the inversion reorganization improved our worldwide effective tax rate and increased our cash flow. Recently, and in prior years, there have been legislative efforts in the Senate to eliminate the tax benefit realized by certain inverted companies. Previous attempts to enact such legislation have failed to be adopted by both Houses of Congress. If enacted into law, such proposed legislation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES On December 31, 2007, the plants and other facilities used by Cooper throughout the world contained an aggregate of approximately 21.8 million square feet of space, of which approximately 79 percent was owned and 21 percent was leased. The charts on the next page show the number of employees, square footage of facilities owned and leased and location of manufacturing facilities for each industry segment. 9 Table of Contents Square Footage of Number and Nature of Facilities Plants and Facilities Number of (in millions) Segment Employees Manufacturing Warehouse Sales Other Owned Leased Electrical Products 26,303 106 19 88 3 13.3 4.0 Tools 4,902 26 6 8 4.0 0.4 Other 299 2 0.1 Total 31,504 132 25 96 5 17.3 4.5 * Multi purpose facilities at a single location are listed in each applicable column. Manufacturing Plant Locations Europe United (Other United South Republic Segment States Than UK) Kingdom Mexico America Australia Canada China of China India Korea Malaysia Electrical Products 50 11 18 10 2 1 5 5 1 1 1 1 Tools 13 7 2 2 1 1 Total 63 18 18 12 4 2 6 5 1 1 1 1 * Some facilities are shared by Electrical Products and Tools operations. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 1. Legal Proceedings Cooper is subject to various suits, legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on Coopers financial statements. In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and indicated that Federal Mogul may not honor the indemnification obligations to Cooper. To the extent Cooper is obligated to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. Based on information provided by representatives of Federal Mogul and recent claims experience, from August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2007, a total of 143,543 Abex Claims were filed, of which 114,084 claims have been resolved leaving 29,450 Abex Claims pending at December 31, 2007, that are the responsibility of Federal Mogul. During the year ended December 31, 2007, 2,005 claims were filed and 3,855 claims were resolved. Since August 28, 1998, the average indemnity payment for resolved Abex Claims was $2,159 before insurance. A total of $129.5 million was spent on defense costs for the period August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2007. Historically, existing insurance coverage has provided 50% to 80% of the total defense and indemnity payments for Abex Claims. However, insurance recovery is currently at a lower percentage (approximately 30%) due to exhaustion of primary layers of coverage and litigation with certain excess insurers. With the assistance of independent advisors, Bates White, LLC, in the fourth quarter of 2001 Cooper completed a thorough analysis of its potential exposure for asbestos liabilities in the event Federal Mogul rejects the 1998 Agreement. Based on Coopers analysis of its contingent liability exposure resulting from Federal Moguls bankruptcy, Cooper concluded that an additional fourth quarter 2001 discontinued operations provision of $30 million after tax was appropriate to reflect the potential net impact of this issue. Throughout 2003, Cooper worked towards resolution of the indemnification issues and future handling of the Abex related claims within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. This included negotiations with the representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants (the Representatives) regarding participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524(g) asbestos trust. Based on the status of the negotiations in 2004, Cooper concluded that it was probable that Federal Mogul would reject the 1998 Agreement. Cooper also concluded that the Representatives would require any negotiated settlement through the Federal Mogul bankruptcy to be at the high end of the Bates White, LLC liability analysis and with substantially lower insurance recovery assumptions and higher administrative costs. During late February and early March 2004, Cooper reassessed the accrual required based on the then current status of the negotiations with the Representatives and the liability and insurance receivable that would be required to be recorded if this matter is not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper concluded that resolution within the Federal Mogul proposed 524(g) asbestos trust would likely be within the range of the liabilities, net of insurance recoveries, that Cooper would accrue if this matter were not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $126.0 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $70.9 income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2003. 11 Table of Contents In December 2005, Cooper announced that the Company and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceeding had reached an agreement regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524 (g) asbestos trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper would resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to court approval, approval of 75 percent of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement would resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex Claims as of December 2005. Future claims would be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper would be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the district court upon plan confirmation. Key terms and aspects of the proposed settlement agreement included Cooper agreeing to pay $130 million in cash into the trust, with $115 million payable upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The remainder would be due on January 15, 2007, or upon emergence from bankruptcy, if later. Cooper would receive a total of $37.5 million during the funding period from other parties associated with the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper would further provide the trust 1.4 million shares of the Companys stock upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The proposed settlement agreement also provided for further payments by Cooper subject to the amount and timing of insurance proceeds. Cooper agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each, reduced by certain insurance proceeds received by the trust. In years that the insurance proceeds exceed $17 million, Cooper would be required to contribute $3 million with the excess insurance proceeds carried over to the next year. The trust would retain 10 percent of the insurance proceeds for indemnity claims paid by the trust until Coopers obligation is satisfied and would retain 15 percent thereafter. The agreement also provided for Cooper to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date a stay of current claims is entered by the bankruptcy court. Cooper would also be required to forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, the parties involved had agreed to petition the court for a stay on all current claims outstanding. Although the payments related to the settlement could extend to 25 years and the collection of insurance proceeds could extend beyond 25 years, the liability and insurance would be undiscounted on Coopers balance sheet as the amount of the actual annual payments is not reasonably predictable. A critical term of the proposed settlement was the issuance of a preliminary injunction staying all pending Abex asbestos claims. At a hearing on January 20, 2006, other parties to the bankruptcy proceedings were unable to satisfy the courts requirements to grant the required preliminary injunction. As a result, the proposed settlement agreement required renegotiation of certain terms. The final determination of whether Cooper would participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust was unknown. However, Cooper management concluded that, at the date of the filing of its 2005 Form 10 K, the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a revised settlement approximating the December 2005 proposed settlement. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $227.2 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2005. The fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and the insurance recoveries only included recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. If the negotiations with the Representatives in early 2004 had resulted in an agreement, Cooper would have paid all the consideration when Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy and the 524(g) trust was formed and would have relinquished all rights to insurance. The lack of discounting and the limited recognition of insurance recoveries in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations were a significant component of the increase in the accrual for discontinued operations. While it is not possible to quantify, the accrual for discontinued operations also includes a premium for resolving the inherent uncertainty associated with resolving Abex Claims though the tort system. If Cooper is unable to reach a settlement to participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust, the accrual for discontinued operations potentially may have to be adjusted to the estimated liability and related insurance recoveries through the tort system. There are numerous assumptions that are required to project the liability in the tort system and Cooper has not completed the analysis and determined the liability that would be recorded under this scenario. 12 Table of Contents Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Cooper included insurance recoveries of approximately $215 million pre tax in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations discussed above. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated and settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. On July 7, 2006, Cooper announced a revised agreement had been reached regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls 524(g) trust. The revised proposed settlement agreement remains subject to court approval and to certain other approvals. Key terms and aspects of the revised proposed settlement agreement include Cooper agreeing to pay $256 million in cash into the trust on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy, which includes elimination of the contribution of 1.4 million common shares to the trust by increasing the cash contribution. Removing Cooper common stock as a component of the revised settlement agreement eliminates additional charges and reversals of charges that may have occurred to account for any changes in the market value of Cooper stock. Cooper has or will receive $37.5 million from other parties toward its cash obligation. As in the December 2005 agreement, Cooper has agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each to the trust with such payments being reduced by insurance proceeds. The minimum annual payment of $3 million in the December 2005 agreement has been eliminated. However, Cooper has agreed to make advances, beginning in 2015 through 2021, in the event the trust is unable to pay outstanding qualified claims at 100 percent of the value provided for in the trust agreement. In the event that advances are made by Cooper, they will accrue interest at 5 percent per annum, and will be repaid in years where excess funds are available in the trust or credited against the future year annual payments. The maximum advances are $36.6 million. Cooper will pay all defense costs through the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and will be reimbursed for indemnity payments to the extent such payments are eligible for payment from the trust. Cooper will retain the rights to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy. For claims paid by the trust, the trust will retain 10 percent of any reimbursed insurance proceeds for the first 25 years and thereafter will retain 15 percent. As in the December 2005 proposed agreement, Cooper will forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. However, under the revised proposed agreement, which is subject to court approval, in the event that Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason, Cooper would receive a cash payment of $138 million on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and 20 percent of any insurance policy settlements related to the former Wagner business purchased by Federal Mogul in 1998. If Cooper participates in the trust, it will receive 12 percent of any Wagner insurance settlements. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $20.3 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in the second quarter of 2006. The revised proposed settlement agreement was incorporated into Federal Moguls Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed on November 21, 2006. On February 2, 2007, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware approved the adequacy of Federal Moguls Supplemental Disclosure Statement describing the Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization. The Court also approved the Voting Procedures and ordered that the voting period would expire on April 6, 2007. At a hearing on April 13, Federal Mogul announced that the Abex settlement had received a favorable vote of approximately 94%, well in excess of the required vote. In addition, any objections to the Fourth Amended Plan were filed with the Court by April 24, 2007 and hearings on 13 Table of Contents confirmation of the Plan were held the week of July 9th. The Court also held hearings on October 1 and 2, 2007 for final briefs and hearings. At the conclusion of these hearings, the Court neither approved or rejected the revised proposed settlement agreement. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization on November 8, 2007, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts order on November 14, 2007. As part of its ruling, the Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul, which requires payment of $138 million to Cooper in the event Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason. The Bankruptcy Court stated that it would consider approving Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust at a later time, and that its order confirming the plan of reorganization and approving the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul does not preclude later approval of Coopers participation in the 524(g) trust. Accordingly, in an effort to continue working towards approval of Coopers participation in the trust and to address certain legal issues identified by the Court, Cooper, Pneumo Abex, Federal Mogul, and other plan supporters filed Modified Plan A Settlement Documents on December 13, 2007. The Modified Plan A Settlement Documents are the same in all material respects as the settlement documents filed with the Bankruptcy Court on July 7, 2006, except that the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents remove provisions relating to insurance, to which various insurers and others had objected, and require a final, non appealable order before Cooper is obligated to contribute to the asbestos claims settlement trust. If the Bankruptcy Court approves the modified settlement and that settlement is implemented, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, will continue to have access to Abex insurance policies, but the settlement no longer provides for payments of insurance proceeds to the trust. Briefing with respect to the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents was expected to be concluded by February 11, 2008, and the Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a hearing to address the modified settlement on February 25, 2008. There is no assurance, however, that the Court will render a decision on that date. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management continues to believe that a settlement on the terms of the revised agreement would allow Cooper to continue to grow through acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. The settlement agreement remains subject to bankruptcy court approval and other matters. At this time, the exact manner in which this issue will be resolved is not known. The accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy was $510.0 million at December 31, 2007 and $529.6 million at December 31, 2006. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Cooper Class A common shares (symbol CBE) are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Options for Cooper Class A common shares are listed on the American Stock Exchange. Cooper Class B common shares are not publicly traded. The Class B common shares were issued to Cooper Industries, Inc. in connection with the reincorporation merger in May 2002 whereby Cooper Industries, Inc., formerly the publicly traded parent company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries, Ltd. Effective January 1, 2005, the Class B common shares were transferred to Cooper US, Inc., which is a wholly owned Cooper subsidiary. Cooper US, Inc. is the only holder of Class B common shares. The holders of Class B common shares are not entitled to vote, except as to matters for which the Bermuda Companies Act specifically requires voting rights for otherwise non voting shares. Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper subsidiaries holding Class A or Class B common shares have entered into a voting agreement whereby any Class A or Class B common shares held by such Cooper subsidiaries will be voted (or abstained from voting) 14 Table of Contents in the same proportion as the other holders of Class A common shares. Therefore, Class A and Class B common shares held by Cooper subsidiaries do not dilute the voting power of the Class A common shares held by the public. As of January 31, 2008 there were 20,773 record holders of Cooper Class A common shares and one holder of Cooper Class B common shares. The high and low quarterly sales prices for the past two years of Cooper Class A common shares as reported by Dow Jones Company, Inc., are as follows: Quarter 1 2 3 4 2007 High $ 48.12 $ 58.20 $ 59.05 $ 57.25 Low 40.00 45.03 47.00 47.07 2006 High $ 43.93 $ 48.06 $ 47.02 $ 47.35 Low 36.02 40.87 39.98 42.50 Annual cash dividends declared on Coopers Class A and Class B common shares during 2005 and 2006 was $.74 a share ($.185 a quarter). On February 14, 2007, the Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly dividend to $.21 a share (or $.84 on an annualized basis). This represented a 14 percent increase over the prior dividend rate. On February 14, 2007, the Board of Directors also approved a 2 for 1 stock split to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2007. The increase in the dividend rate was effective for the dividend paid on April 2, 2007. Based on Coopers capital structure in 2007, all of the dividend distributions paid by it in 2007 are treated as a return of capital to its shareholders. For dividends payable in 2008, Cooper currently anticipates that based on its capital structure all or a substantial portion of its dividend distributions will be treated as a return of capital to its shareholders. For the dividends payable in 2005, 2006 and 2007, Coopers subsidiaries that held Class A and Class B shares received dividends on such shares. On February 12, 2008, the Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly dividend to $.25 per share (or $1.00 on an annualized basis). This represents a 19 percent increase over the prior dividend rate. The following table reflects activity related to equity securities purchased by Cooper during the three months ended December 31, 2007: Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Shares Maximum Number of Total Number of Purchased as Part of Shares that May Yet Be Shares Average Price Publicly Announced Plans Purchased Under the Period Purchased Paid per Share or Programs Plans or Programs(1) As of 9/30/07 5,661,687 10/01/07 10/31/07 347,100 $ 53.01 347,100 5,314,587 11/01/07 11/30/07 540,000 $ 50.82 540,000 4,774,587 12/01/07 12/31/07 451,240 $ 51.57 451,240 4,323,347 (2) Total 1,338,340 $ 51.64 1,338,340 (1) On November 2, 2004, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to ten million additional shares of Coopers Class A common stock. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. 15 Table of Contents (2) For 2008, Coopers current estimate is that 3 million shares will be issued under equity compensation plans, which is not reflected in the above table. (3) As of the date of this filing in 2008, Cooper had repurchased the 3 million shares intended to offset dilution from share issuances under equity compensation plans, as well as approximately 600,000 additional shares under the November 2, 2004 Cooper Board of Directors authorization discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under this authorization from time to time during 2008. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions. (4) On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of ten million shares of common stock in addition to the remaining November 2, 2004 authorization, which is not reflected in the above table. Further information required by this Item is set forth under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in Coopers Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with Coopers 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth selected historical financial data for Cooper for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2007. The selected historical financial information shown below has been derived from Coopers audited consolidated financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with Coopers consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Years Ending December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in millions, except per share data) INCOME STATEMENT DATA: Revenues $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 $ 4,730.4 $ 4,462.9 $ 4,061.4 Income from continuing operations $ 692.3 $ 484.3 $ 391.1 $ 339.8 $ 274.3 Charge from discontinued operations, net of taxes 20.3 227.2 126.0 Net income $ 692.3 $ 464.0 $ 163.9 $ 339.8 $ 148.3 INCOME PER COMMON SHARE DATA: Basic Income from continuing operations $ 3.80 $ 2.64 $ 2.12 $ 1.84 $ 1.48 Charge from discontinued operations .11 1.23 .68 Net income $ 3.80 $ 2.53 $ .89 $ 1.84 $ .80 Diluted Income from continuing operations $ 3.73 $ 2.58 $ 2.06 $ 1.79 $ 1.46 Charge from discontinued operations .11 1.19 .67 Net income $ 3.73 $ 2.47 $ .87 $ 1.79 $ .79 BALANCE SHEET DATA (at December 31): Total assets $ 6,133.5 $ 5,374.8 $ 5,215.1 $ 5,407.8 $ 4,965.3 Long term debt, excluding current maturities 909.9 702.8 1,002.9 698.6 1,336.7 Shareholders equity 2,841.9 2,475.3 2,205.2 2,286.5 2,118.2 CASH DIVIDENDS PER COMMON SHARE $ .84 $ .74 $ .74 $ .70 $ .70 In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products segment for $1.9 billion in proceeds. Discontinued operations charges of $20.3 million, net of a $11.4 million income tax benefit in 2006; $227.2 million, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit in 2005 and $126.0 million, net of a $70.9 million income tax benefit in 2003 were recorded for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products segment sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes certain forward looking statements. The forward looking statements reflect Coopers expectations, objectives and goals with respect to future events and financial performance, and are based on assumptions and estimates which Cooper believes are reasonable. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Cooper wishes to caution readers not to put undue reliance on these statements and that actual results could differ materially from anticipated results. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, the resolution of Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations and the implementation of the Enterprise Business System, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations and changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations. The forward looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Critical Accounting Policies The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns and other allowances was $95.1 million and $73.4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $77.9 million at December 31, 2007 and $65.6 million at December 31, 2006. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. 17 Table of Contents Total net periodic pension benefits cost was $3.9 million in 2007, $31.0 million in 2006 and $18.9 million in 2005. During 2006, Cooper announced that effective January 1, 2007, future benefit accruals would cease under the Cooper U.S. Salaried Pension Plan. Cooper recognized a $4.2 million curtailment loss in 2006 as a result of this action. During 2006, Cooper also recognized a $4.1 million settlement loss primarily in connection with the retirement of senior executives. Total net periodic pension benefits cost as expected declined in 2007 primarily due to the elimination of service cost on the salaried pension plan and non recurrence of the 2006 losses discussed above. Beginning in 2007, Cooper contributed cash equal to 3% of compensation to the Cooper Retirement Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (CO SAV). Cooper further increased the company matching contribution under the CO SAV plan to a dollar for dollar match up to 6% of employee contributions. The net periodic pension benefit cost of $3.3 million for 2008 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 6.00% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.7 million in 2007. Cooper announced the elimination of postretirement life insurance for active employees effective January 1, 2007. As a result, Cooper recognized a $3.2 million curtailment gain in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the curtailment gain, net periodic postretirement benefit cost decreased to $0.8 million in 2006, primarily as a result of plan amendments related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, compared to $3.6 million in 2005. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately $0.7 million in 2008, assuming a discount rate of 6.00%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards are estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted are measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. Performance goals are currently assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. Total stock based compensation expense was $39.0 million in 2007, $29.1 million in 2006, and $40.3 million in 2005. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $30.2 million at December 31, 2007 and $29.7 million at December 31, 2006. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 Table of Contents Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. During 2007, there were no significant changes in the methodologies utilized to calculate Coopers tax provision or related tax balance sheet accounts. Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on audits and litigation, a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized could result. In 2007, Cooper reduced income taxes expense by $83.8 million ($.45 per share) as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, favorable audit settlements and other matters. However, management does not believe that any of these matters will have a material effect on Coopers consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the fourth quarter of 2005, Cooper revised the accrual that represents its best estimate of liabilities related to the sale of the Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul in 1998. During the three year period ending December 31, 2007, Cooper accounted for payments made to settle asbestos related cases by reducing the accrual and insurance recoveries collected during the periods as increases to the accrual. Subsequent proceeds from insurance claims for settlements would increase the accrual. The analysis of Coopers contingent liability exposure for asbestos related claims involving Abex products was conducted in the fourth quarter of 2001 with assistance from independent advisors, Bates White, LLC, and assumed future resolution of the Abex related asbestos claims within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceeding. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, throughout 2003, Cooper worked towards resolution of the indemnification issues and future handling of the Abex related claims within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. This included negotiations with representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants (Representatives) regarding participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524(g) asbestos trust. Based on the status of the negotiations in 2004, Cooper concluded that it was probable that Federal Mogul would reject the 1998 Agreement. Cooper also concluded that the Representatives would require any negotiated settlement through the Federal Mogul bankruptcy to be at the high end of the Bates White, LLC liability analysis and with substantially lower insurance recovery assumptions and higher administrative costs. During late February and early March 2004, Cooper reassessed the accrual required based on the then current status of the negotiations with the Representatives and the liability and insurance receivable that would be required to be recorded if this matter is not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper concluded that resolution within the Federal Mogul proposed 524(g) asbestos trust would likely be within the 19 Table of Contents range of the liabilities, net of insurance recoveries, that Cooper would accrue if this matter were not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $126.0 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $70.9 income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2003. In December 2005, Cooper announced that the Company and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceeding had reached an agreement regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524 (g) asbestos trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper would resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to court approval, approval of 75 percent of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement would resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex Claims as of December 2005. Future claims would be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper would be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the district court upon plan confirmation. Key terms and aspects of the proposed settlement agreement included Cooper agreeing to pay $130 million in cash into the trust, with $115 million payable upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The remainder would be due on January 15, 2007, or upon emergence from bankruptcy, if later. Cooper would receive a total of $37.5 million during the funding period from other parties associated with the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper would further provide the trust 1.4 million shares of the Companys stock upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The proposed settlement agreement also provided for further payments by Cooper subject to the amount and timing of insurance proceeds. Cooper agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each, reduced by certain insurance proceeds received by the trust. In years that the insurance proceeds exceed $17 million, Cooper would be required to contribute $3 million with the excess insurance proceeds carried over to the next year. The trust would retain 10 percent of the insurance proceeds for indemnity claims paid by the trust until Coopers obligation is satisfied and would retain 15 percent thereafter. The agreement also provided for Cooper to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date a stay of current claims is entered by the bankruptcy court. Cooper would also be required to forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, the parties involved had agreed to petition the court for a stay on all current claims outstanding. Although the payments related to the settlement could extend to 25 years and the collection of insurance proceeds could extend beyond 25 years, the liability and insurance would be undiscounted on Coopers balance sheet as the amount of the actual annual payments is not reasonably predictable. A critical term of the proposed settlement was the issuance of a preliminary injunction staying all pending Abex asbestos claims. At a hearing on January 20, 2006, other parties to the bankruptcy proceedings were unable to satisfy the courts requirements to grant the required preliminary injunction. As a result, the proposed settlement agreement required renegotiation of certain terms. The final determination of whether Cooper would participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust was unknown. However, Cooper management concluded that, at the date of the filing of its 2005 Form 10 K, the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a revised settlement approximating the December 2005 proposed settlement. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $227.2 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2005. The fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and the insurance recoveries only included recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. If the negotiations with the Representatives in early 2004 had resulted in an agreement, Cooper would have paid all the consideration when Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy and the 524(g) trust was formed and would have relinquished all rights to insurance. The lack of discounting and the limited recognition of insurance recoveries in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations were a significant component of the increase in the accrual for discontinued operations. While it is not possible to quantify, the accrual for discontinued operations also includes a premium for resolving the inherent uncertainty associated with resolving Abex Claims though the tort system. If Cooper is unable to reach a settlement to participate in the 20 Table of Contents Federal Mogul 524(g) trust, the accrual for discontinued operations potentially may have to be adjusted to the estimated liability and related insurance recoveries through the tort system. There are numerous assumptions that are required to project the liability in the tort system and Cooper has not completed the analysis and determined the liability that would be recorded under this scenario. Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Cooper included insurance recoveries of approximately $215 million pre tax in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations discussed above. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated and settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. On July 7, 2006, Cooper announced a revised agreement had been reached regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls 524(g) trust. The revised proposed settlement agreement remains subject to court approval and to certain other approvals. Key terms and aspects of the revised proposed settlement agreement include Cooper agreeing to pay $256 million in cash into the trust on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy, which includes elimination of the contribution of 1.4 million common shares to the trust by increasing the cash contribution. Removing Cooper common stock as a component of the revised settlement agreement eliminates additional charges and reversals of charges that may have occurred to account for any changes in the market value of Cooper stock. Cooper has or will receive $37.5 million from other parties toward its cash obligation. As in the December 2005 agreement, Cooper has agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each to the trust with such payments being reduced by insurance proceeds. The minimum annual payment of $3 million in the December 2005 agreement has been eliminated. However, Cooper has agreed to make advances, beginning in 2015 through 2021, in the event the trust is unable to pay outstanding qualified claims at 100 percent of the value provided for in the trust agreement. In the event that advances are made by Cooper, they will accrue interest at 5 percent per annum, and will be repaid in years where excess funds are available in the trust or credited against the future year annual payments. The maximum advances are $36.6 million. Cooper will pay all defense costs through the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and will be reimbursed for indemnity payments to the extent such payments are eligible for payment from the trust. Cooper will retain the rights to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy. For claims paid by the trust, the trust will retain 10 percent of any reimbursed insurance proceeds for the first 25 years and thereafter will retain 15 percent. As in the December 2005 proposed agreement, Cooper will forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. However, under the revised proposed agreement, which is subject to court approval, in the event that Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason, Cooper would receive a cash payment of $138 million on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and 20 percent of any insurance policy settlements related to the former Wagner business purchased by Federal Mogul in 1998. If Cooper participates in the trust, it will receive 12 percent of any Wagner insurance settlements. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $20.3 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in the second quarter of 2006. The revised proposed settlement agreement was incorporated into Federal Moguls Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed on November 21, 2006. On February 2, 2007, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware approved the adequacy of Federal Moguls Supplemental Disclosure Statement describing the Fourth Amended Joint Plan of 21 Table of Contents Reorganization. The Court also approved the Voting Procedures and ordered that the voting period would expire on April 6, 2007. At a hearing on April 13, Federal Mogul announced that the Abex settlement had received a favorable vote of approximately 94%, well in excess of the required vote. In addition, any objections to the Fourth Amended Plan were filed with the Court by April 24, 2007 and hearings on confirmation of the Plan were held the week of July 9th. The Court also held hearings on October 1 and 2, 2007 for final briefs and hearings. At the conclusion of these hearings, the Court neither approved or rejected the revised proposed settlement agreement. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization on November 8, 2007, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts order on November 14, 2007. As part of its ruling, the Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul, which requires payment of $138 million to Cooper in the event Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason. The Bankruptcy Court stated that it would consider approving Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust at a later time, and that its order confirming the plan of reorganization and approving the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul does not preclude later approval of Coopers participation in the 524(g) trust. Accordingly, in an effort to continue working towards approval of Coopers participation in the trust and to address certain legal issues identified by the Court, Cooper, Pneumo Abex, Federal Mogul, and other plan supporters filed Modified Plan A Settlement Documents on December 13, 2007. The Modified Plan A Settlement Documents are the same in all material respects as the settlement documents filed with the Bankruptcy Court on July 7, 2006, except that the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents remove provisions relating to insurance, to which various insurers and others had objected, and require a final, non appealable order before Cooper is obligated to contribute to the asbestos claims settlement trust. If the Bankruptcy Court approves the modified settlement and that settlement is implemented, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, will continue to have access to Abex insurance policies, but the settlement no longer provides for payments of insurance proceeds to the trust. Briefing with respect to the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents was expected to be concluded by February 11, 2008, and the Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a hearing to address the modified settlement on February 25, 2008. There is no assurance, however, that the Court will render a decision on that date. Cooper will periodically assess the current overall adequacy of the accrual for discontinued operations, including updates to the assumptions regarding estimates of insurance recoveries, levels of defense and indemnity payments and other assumptions related to the matter. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper will record a charge or credit to the accrual for discontinued operations, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management continues to believe that a settlement on the terms of the revised agreement would allow Cooper to continue to grow through acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. The settlement agreement remains subject to bankruptcy court approval and other matters. At this time, the exact manner in which this issue will be resolved is not known. The accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy was $510.0 million at December 31, 2007 and $529.6 million at December 31, 2006. Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 5,108.4 $ 4,426.0 $ 3,997.5 Tools 794.7 758.6 732.9 Total Revenues $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 $ 4,730.4 22 Table of Contents See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues Revenues for 2007 increased 14% compared to 2006. The impact of currency translation was 2%, while acquisitions added approximately 4% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2007, which represented 87% of revenues, increased approximately 15% compared to 2006. Currency translation represented 2% of the revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased segment revenues by approximately 4%. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2007. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from the utility and industrial markets, international expansion and solid demand from U.S. nonresidential construction. Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2007, which represented 13% of revenues, increased approximately 5% compared to 2006, with currency translation representing 3% of the increase. Sales increases were driven by solid demand from aerospace, partially offset by soft demand in the motor vehicle end markets. Retail sales compared to 2006 were down slightly in a challenging U.S. market. 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues Revenues for 2006 increased 10% compared to 2005. The impact of currency translation was nominal, while acquisitions, net of a small divestiture, added approximately 2% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2006, which represented 85% of revenues, increased approximately 11% compared to 2005. Currency translation had a nominal impact on 2006 revenues. The impact of acquisitions, net of a small divestiture, increased segment revenues by approximately 2%. All of the Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2006. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from industrial and utility markets, improvement in non residential construction demand and successful expansion into developing international markets. These gains more than offset a decline in retail sales due to an overall slowdown in the residential market and ceding product lines in the channel over prices. Tools segment revenues for 2006, which represented 15% of revenues, increased approximately 4% compared to 2005. Currency translation increased revenues by approximately 1%. Increased sales of hand tools were driven by new product introductions, strength in industrial markets and international expansion. These gains offset the loss of chain product position at a major retailer and the overall slowdown in the residential market. Demand for industrial power tools strengthened and strong fourth quarter shipments led to modest year over year growth in revenue from the automated systems business. 23 Table of Contents Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 848.2 $ 703.2 $ 585.0 Tools 94.0 85.6 66.7 Total Segment Operating Earnings 942.2 788.8 651.7 General Corporate Expense 98.1 94.7 91.9 Operating Earnings 844.1 694.1 559.8 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 5.1 Interest Expense, net 51.0 51.5 64.8 Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 826.2 647.7 495.0 Income Tax Expense 133.9 163.4 103.9 Income from Continuing Operations 692.3 484.3 391.1 Charge Related to Discontinued Operations 20.3 227.2 Net Income $ 692.3 $ 464.0 $ 163.9 Diluted Earnings Per Share: Income from Continuing Operations $ 3.73 $ 2.58 $ 2.06 Charge from Discontinued Operations .11 1.19 Net Income $ 3.73 $ 2.47 $ .87 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2007 vs. 2006 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $942.2 million in 2007 compared to $788.8 million in 2006. Electrical Products segment 2007 operating earnings increased 21% to $848.2 million from $703.2 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 16.6% for 2007 compared to 15.9% for 2006. The increase was primarily due to leverage on fixed costs due to higher sales volumes and continued execution on productivity initiatives and lean manufacturing programs. Tools segment 2007 operating earnings increased 10% to $94.0 million compared to $85.6 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 11.8% compared to 11.3% in 2006. The modest core growth in sales volume was further leveraged through focus on productivity activities and cost reductions. 2006 vs. 2005 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $788.8 million in 2006 compared to $651.7 million in 2005. Electrical Products segment 2006 operating earnings increased 20% to $703.2 million from $585.0 million for 2005. Return on revenues was 15.9% for 2006 compared to 14.6% for 2005. The increase was primarily due to leverage of fixed costs on higher volume, favorable pricing offsetting inflation in production material costs, strong execution on productivity improvement initiatives, and a shift in sales mix away from the lower margin retail channel. 24 Table of Contents Tools segment 2006 operating earnings increased 28% to $85.6 million compared to $66.7 million for 2005. Return on revenues was 11.3% compared to 9.1% in 2005. The increase reflects leverage on fixed costs due to increased volume, improved sales mix, price increase realization and successful cost reduction initiatives. Restructuring During the fourth quarter of 2003, Cooper recorded net restructuring charges of $16.9 million, or $13.6 million after taxes ($.07 per diluted common share). This represented costs associated with restructuring projects undertaken in 2003 of $18.4 million, partially offset by a $1.5 million adjustment of estimates for restructuring projects initiated in 2002. The most significant action included in the charges was an announcement of the closing of Cooper Wiring Devices manufacturing operations in New York City. This action included plans for the withdrawal from a multiple employer pension plan. Cooper recorded a $12.5 million obligation as an estimate of Coopers portion of unfunded benefit obligations of the plan. In 2005, Cooper finalized activities related to withdrawal from the multi employer pension plan and recorded an additional $4.0 million pre tax charge. The multiple employer pension obligation was satisfied with a cash payment of $14.1 million in October 2006 representing full and final payment of the withdrawal liability. The remaining $5.9 million charge in 2003 primarily represented severance for announced employment reductions at several locations. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had paid $5.9 million and $5.9 million, respectively, for these actions, all of which was for severance costs. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense increased $3.4 million during 2007 to $98.1 million compared to $94.7 million for 2006. General Corporate expense includes $8.8 million and $4.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding these costs, General Corporate expense decreased $0.6 million in 2007 to $89.3 million compared to $89.9 million in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is primarily related to continued cost containment. General Corporate expenses increased $2.8 million during 2006 to $94.7 million compared to $91.9 million for 2005. General Corporate expense includes $4.8 million in 2006 for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years, and includes $6.5 million in 2005 for retirement and other costs related to senior executives. Excluding these items, General Corporate expense increased $4.5 million in 2006 primarily as a result of increased incentive compensation costs. Income from Belden agreement Income from Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007 compared to $5.1 million during 2006. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payment are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net for 2007 decreased $0.5 million from 2006 as a result of lower average interest rates offsetting higher average debt balances. Average debt balances were $1.05 billion and $1.04 billion and average interest rates were 5.64% and 5.70% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. Interest rate swaps that effectively converted this fixed rate debt to variable rate debt also matured at that time (see Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc., issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 25 Table of Contents 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75%. Interest expense, net for 2006 decreased $13.3 million from 2005 as a result of both lower average debt balances and average interest rates. Average debt balances were $1.04 billion and $1.26 billion, and average interest rates were 5.70% and 5.87% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decline in the average interest rates was primarily the result of conversion of debt balances to lower interest rate debt. The debt balance during 2005 included 6.25%, 300 million Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Cooper partially funded repayment of this Euro bond debt with $325 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes maturing in 2012. Proceeds from the notes were swapped to 272.6 million with cross currency interest rate swaps, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 16.2% for 2007, 25.2% for 2006 and 21.0% for 2005. The decrease in the 2007 rate is primarily due to an $83.8 million ($.45 per share) reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. Excluding these tax expense reductions, as well as the General Corporate costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years and income from Belden as discussed above, the effective tax rate for 2007 was 27.3%. The increase in tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily related to increased taxable earnings in 2006 without a corresponding increase in tax benefits. Charge Related to Discontinued Operations In the second quarter of 2006, Cooper recorded an additional charge of $20.3 million, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, related to potential asbestos obligations regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Cooper concluded that additional charges of $227.2 million, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit related to this matter were required in order to adjust the existing accrual to amounts within the likely range of outcomes. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $3.73 in 2007, $2.58 in 2006, and $2.06 in 2005. The income from the Belden agreement, increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years, and income tax reduction discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 67.0 % 67.7 % 68.1 % Tools 68.8 % 69.3 % 70.8 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 16.4 % 16.4 % 17.2 % Tools 19.4 % 19.4 % 20.1 % 2007 vs 2006 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.0% for 2007 compared to 67.7% for 2006. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of productivity initiatives and production leverage on higher volume, partially offset 26 Table of Contents by the impact of acquisitions. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.8% for 2007 compared to 69.3% for 2006. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects operating efficiency gains from productivity improvements and cost reductions and the lower level of sales of large low margin assembly systems projects. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 16.4% compared to 16.4% for 2006. The selling and administrative expenses percentage is unchanged, but was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives, offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations and continued investment in global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 19.4% compared to 19.4% for 2006, as productivity initiatives were offset by inflation. 2006 vs 2005 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.7% for 2006 compared to 68.1% for 2005. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of leverage on higher volumes, pricing offsetting inflationary pressures for production material and energy costs, successful productivity improvement initiatives, and a shift in sales mix away from the lower margin retail channel. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 69.3% for 2006 compared to 70.8% for 2005. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects continuing cost productivity improvements, favorable sales mix, and price increase realization. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2006 were 16.4% compared to 17.2% for 2005. The decrease in selling and administrative expenses percentage is primarily due to leveraging higher volumes, enterprise business system benefits, and benefits realized from prior year cost reductions. These performance improvements more than offset continued investment in key commercial and global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2006 were 19.4% compared to 20.1% for 2005. The decrease in the selling and administrative expenses percentage is primarily due to leverage on fixed costs and cost reduction activities. Cooper realizes certain costs and proceeds that are not directly attributable to the operating segments. These items are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2008 based on current expectations. Cooper expects low double digit growth in revenues for Electrical Products in 2008 from continuing global growth in utility and industrial market demand, successful market penetration from key growth initiatives and price increases in response to commodity and energy cost inflation partially offset by the soft U.S. residential markets and slower growth in the other U.S. markets. Acquisitions completed in 2007 or forecast to be completed in the first quarter of 2008 are expected to be approximately 7% of Electrical Products revenue growth. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects low single digit revenue growth due to the weakness in the residential and motor vehicle markets. Operating earnings are expected to grow more rapidly than revenues as a result of benefits from on going cost reduction programs, realizing further productivity improvements and leveraging of fixed costs. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $3.45 to $3.61, including the impact of acquisitions, integration costs and costs to reorganize the Tools segment. The above statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. The above statements are based on a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties. The primary economic assumptions include, without limitation: (1) continued growth in the United States and other economies; (2) no significant change in raw material or energy costs that are not realized through price increases; (3) realization of benefits of cost reduction programs (including implementing an Enterprise Business System) with no major disruptions from those programs currently underway; (4) no significant adverse changes in the 27 Table of Contents relationship of the U.S. dollar to the currencies of countries in which Cooper does business, and (5) no significant changes in the income tax laws or their interpretation. The estimates also assume, without limitation, no significant change in competitive conditions and such other risk factors as are discussed from time to time in Coopers periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. It is Coopers judgment that unit volumes in both the Electrical Products and Tools segments increased in 2007. During the three year period ending December 31, 2007, Cooper has experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation Over the three year period, inflation has had a relatively minor impact on Coopers results of operations. However, during 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. In each of the last three years, Cooper has realized price increases at least equal to material purchase cost increases. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base has mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for 2007 of 5.4 turns increased from 5.2 turns in 2006 primarily due to initiatives focused on improved inventory turns. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding deteriorated slightly, although this was due in part to acquisitions closing in December and the increased sales outside of the U.S. where commercial terms are generally longer. Coopers operating working capital increased $78.6 million during 2006. The increase included a $53.6 million increase in receivables and a $68.9 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $43.9 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $6.9 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average 28 Table of Contents quarterly operating working capital) for 2006 of 5.2 turns increased from 4.9 turns in 2005 primarily due to initiatives focused on reducing days sales outstanding and improved payables management. Inventory turns remained flat with 2005, as the company maintained focus on improving customer service. Coopers operating working capital decreased $40 million to $953 million in 2005 compared to $993 million in 2004. The decrease in operating working capital for 2005 was due to a $77 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $21 million increase in receivables and a $16 million increase in inventories. Receivables and inventories increased with higher sales volume and ongoing efforts to improve customer service. Payables increased on higher volumes and improved payables management through expanded leverage of enterprise business system capabilities. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for 2005 of 4.9 turns increased from 4.6 turns in 2004 due to revenue growth and a decline in operating working capital. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $795 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $191 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251 million, and $68 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $116 million, acquisitions of $336 million, dividends of $154 million, share purchases of $344 million, and $94 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290 million to fund a binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that is expected to close in the first quarter of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $601 million during 2006. This cash, plus an additional $29 million of cash and cash equivalents and $89 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $85 million, acquisitions of $280 million, dividends of $137 million and share purchases of $264 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $574 million for 2005. These funds, plus $200 million of cash and cash equivalents and $73 million of cash received from employee stock activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $97 million, dividends of $138 million, net debt repayments of $384 million and share purchases of $211 million during 2005. In connection with accounting for acquisitions, Cooper records, to the extent appropriate, accruals for the costs of closing duplicate facilities, severing redundant personnel and integrating the acquired businesses into existing Cooper operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had no accruals related to these activities. Cash flows from operating activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, is reduced by the amounts expended on the various accruals established in connection with each acquisition. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $400 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment and common stock repurchases. As discussed in Note 16 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Cooper has reached a revised agreement with the Representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants regarding settlement of Coopers contingent liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale to Federal Mogul. Cooper anticipates that any settlement would be funded from operating cash flows, existing cash, and debt proceeds (if required). Debt At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $232.8 million and $423.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had short term debt of $256.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. 29 Table of Contents Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt with a combination of cash and committed credit facilities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had a $500 million committed credit facility, which matures in November 2009. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facility. The credit facility agreement is not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreement limit Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and require Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreement. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash and its committed credit facility to provide short term funding. The committed credit facility does not contain any provision, which makes its availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. On November 8, 2005, Cooper US, Inc., a subsidiary of Cooper, issued $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Payment of the notes is guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its subsidiaries. Proceeds of the notes were swapped with cross currency interest rate swaps to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75 %. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $99.5 million and $118.6 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Eighty six percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2007 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. 30 Table of Contents Payments Due Less than One to Four to After Total One Year Three Years Five Years Five Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 1,010.0 $ 100.1 $ 277.5 $ 324.1 $ 308.3 Short Term Debt 256.1 256.1 Noncancellable Operating Leases 114.9 24.4 35.6 19.2 35.7 Purchase Obligations 333.7 328.9 4.8 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 228.1 20.1 39.8 39.9 128.3 $ 1,942.8 $ 729.6 $ 357.7 $ 383.2 $ 472.3 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded non U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities, other postemployment benefit liabilities and environmental liabilities. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $57.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Capitalization On November 2, 2004, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2007, 4.3 million shares remained available to purchase under the authorization. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of ten million shares of common stock in addition to the remaining November 2, 2004 authorization. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. As of the date of this filing in 2008, Cooper had repurchased the 3 million shares intended to offset dilution from share issuances under equity compensation plans, as well as approximately 600,000 additional shares under the November 2, 2004 Cooper Board of Directors authorization discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under this authorization from time to time during 2008. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to purchase shares of Coopers Common stock or fund acquisitions. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 30.8%, 28.9% and 31.7%, respectively. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 14, 2007, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Cooper common stock and increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.10 cents per share to $.84 per share. The record date for the stock split was February 28, 2007 and the distribution date was March 15, 2007. On February 9, 2005, Coopers Board of Directors increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by eight cents per share to $.74. All share and per share information presented in this Form 10 K has been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of the stock split. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $116 million in 2007, $85 million in 2006 and $97 million in 2005. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $120 to 31 Table of Contents $130 million in 2008. Projected expenditures for 2008 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products, continued implementation of new business systems and cost reduction programs. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2007 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 100.1 $ 275.2 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 300.3 $ 1,002.9 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 5.7 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Cross currency interest rate swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % Average receive rate 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts mature during 2008. The contracts related to funding of the MTL tender offer have been excluded due to the very short terms of those contracts. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 32 Table of Contents 2008 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 10.7 Average contract rate 1.408 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 88.8 Average contract rate 1.440 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 91.5 Average contract rate 1.030 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 26.5 Average contract rate .0884 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 220.6 Average contract rate 1.977 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 18.5 Average contract rate 1.467 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 10.6 Average contract rate 1.998 Great Britain Pound Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 14.5 Average contract rate 2.007 The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2006 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. The average pay rate on interest rate swaps is based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2006. 33 Table of Contents 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 300.7 $ 100.3 $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 1,003.3 Average interest rate 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.4 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Interest rate swaps: Fixed to variable: Notional amount (1) $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 Average pay rate 7.38 % 7.38 % Average receive rate 5.25 % 5.25 % Cross currency interest rate swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (2) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % Average receive rate 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % (1) Cooper entered into interest rate swaps to effectively convert its fixed rate $300 million senior unsecured debt due in July 2007 to variable rate debt. (2) Cooper entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2006. The contracts matured during 2007. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 2007 (in millions, where applicable) Euro Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 143.9 Average contract rate 1.288 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 121.7 Average contract rate 1.306 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 76.0 Average contract rate .8913 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.9 Average contract rate .0908 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. 34 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes certain forward looking statements. The forward looking statements reflect Coopers expectations, objectives and goals with respect to future events and financial performance, and are based on assumptions and estimates which Cooper believes are reasonable. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, any statements regarding future revenues, costs and expenses, earnings, earnings per share, margins, cash flows, dividends and capital expenditures. Cooper wishes to caution readers not to put undue reliance on these statements and that actual results could differ materially from anticipated results. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to, the resolution of Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust, political developments, market and economic conditions, changes in raw material, transportation and energy costs, industry competition, the ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives including revenue growth plans and cost control and productivity improvement programs, the magnitude of any disruptions from manufacturing rationalizations and the implementation of the Enterprise Business System, changes in mix of products sold, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into Cooper, the timing and amount of any stock repurchases by Cooper, changes in financial markets including currency exchange rate fluctuations and changing legislation and regulations including changes in tax law, tax treaties or tax regulations. The forward looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Critical Accounting Policies The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns and other allowances was $95.1 million and $73.4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $77.9 million at December 31, 2007 and $65.6 million at December 31, 2006. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. 17 Table of Contents Total net periodic pension benefits cost was $3.9 million in 2007, $31.0 million in 2006 and $18.9 million in 2005. During 2006, Cooper announced that effective January 1, 2007, future benefit accruals would cease under the Cooper U.S. Salaried Pension Plan. Cooper recognized a $4.2 million curtailment loss in 2006 as a result of this action. During 2006, Cooper also recognized a $4.1 million settlement loss primarily in connection with the retirement of senior executives. Total net periodic pension benefits cost as expected declined in 2007 primarily due to the elimination of service cost on the salaried pension plan and non recurrence of the 2006 losses discussed above. Beginning in 2007, Cooper contributed cash equal to 3% of compensation to the Cooper Retirement Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (CO SAV). Cooper further increased the company matching contribution under the CO SAV plan to a dollar for dollar match up to 6% of employee contributions. The net periodic pension benefit cost of $3.3 million for 2008 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 6.00% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.7 million in 2007. Cooper announced the elimination of postretirement life insurance for active employees effective January 1, 2007. As a result, Cooper recognized a $3.2 million curtailment gain in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the curtailment gain, net periodic postretirement benefit cost decreased to $0.8 million in 2006, primarily as a result of plan amendments related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, compared to $3.6 million in 2005. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately $0.7 million in 2008, assuming a discount rate of 6.00%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards are estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted are measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. Performance goals are currently assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. Total stock based compensation expense was $39.0 million in 2007, $29.1 million in 2006, and $40.3 million in 2005. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $30.2 million at December 31, 2007 and $29.7 million at December 31, 2006. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 Table of Contents Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. During 2007, there were no significant changes in the methodologies utilized to calculate Coopers tax provision or related tax balance sheet accounts. Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on audits and litigation, a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized could result. In 2007, Cooper reduced income taxes expense by $83.8 million ($.45 per share) as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, favorable audit settlements and other matters. However, management does not believe that any of these matters will have a material effect on Coopers consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the fourth quarter of 2005, Cooper revised the accrual that represents its best estimate of liabilities related to the sale of the Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul in 1998. During the three year period ending December 31, 2007, Cooper accounted for payments made to settle asbestos related cases by reducing the accrual and insurance recoveries collected during the periods as increases to the accrual. Subsequent proceeds from insurance claims for settlements would increase the accrual. The analysis of Coopers contingent liability exposure for asbestos related claims involving Abex products was conducted in the fourth quarter of 2001 with assistance from independent advisors, Bates White, LLC, and assumed future resolution of the Abex related asbestos claims within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceeding. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, throughout 2003, Cooper worked towards resolution of the indemnification issues and future handling of the Abex related claims within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. This included negotiations with representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants (Representatives) regarding participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524(g) asbestos trust. Based on the status of the negotiations in 2004, Cooper concluded that it was probable that Federal Mogul would reject the 1998 Agreement. Cooper also concluded that the Representatives would require any negotiated settlement through the Federal Mogul bankruptcy to be at the high end of the Bates White, LLC liability analysis and with substantially lower insurance recovery assumptions and higher administrative costs. During late February and early March 2004, Cooper reassessed the accrual required based on the then current status of the negotiations with the Representatives and the liability and insurance receivable that would be required to be recorded if this matter is not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper concluded that resolution within the Federal Mogul proposed 524(g) asbestos trust would likely be within the 19 Table of Contents range of the liabilities, net of insurance recoveries, that Cooper would accrue if this matter were not settled within the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $126.0 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $70.9 income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2003. In December 2005, Cooper announced that the Company and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceeding had reached an agreement regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524 (g) asbestos trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper would resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to court approval, approval of 75 percent of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement would resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex Claims as of December 2005. Future claims would be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper would be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the district court upon plan confirmation. Key terms and aspects of the proposed settlement agreement included Cooper agreeing to pay $130 million in cash into the trust, with $115 million payable upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The remainder would be due on January 15, 2007, or upon emergence from bankruptcy, if later. Cooper would receive a total of $37.5 million during the funding period from other parties associated with the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. Cooper would further provide the trust 1.4 million shares of the Companys stock upon Federal Moguls emergence from bankruptcy. The proposed settlement agreement also provided for further payments by Cooper subject to the amount and timing of insurance proceeds. Cooper agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each, reduced by certain insurance proceeds received by the trust. In years that the insurance proceeds exceed $17 million, Cooper would be required to contribute $3 million with the excess insurance proceeds carried over to the next year. The trust would retain 10 percent of the insurance proceeds for indemnity claims paid by the trust until Coopers obligation is satisfied and would retain 15 percent thereafter. The agreement also provided for Cooper to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date a stay of current claims is entered by the bankruptcy court. Cooper would also be required to forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, the parties involved had agreed to petition the court for a stay on all current claims outstanding. Although the payments related to the settlement could extend to 25 years and the collection of insurance proceeds could extend beyond 25 years, the liability and insurance would be undiscounted on Coopers balance sheet as the amount of the actual annual payments is not reasonably predictable. A critical term of the proposed settlement was the issuance of a preliminary injunction staying all pending Abex asbestos claims. At a hearing on January 20, 2006, other parties to the bankruptcy proceedings were unable to satisfy the courts requirements to grant the required preliminary injunction. As a result, the proposed settlement agreement required renegotiation of certain terms. The final determination of whether Cooper would participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust was unknown. However, Cooper management concluded that, at the date of the filing of its 2005 Form 10 K, the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a revised settlement approximating the December 2005 proposed settlement. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $227.2 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit, in the fourth quarter of 2005. The fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and the insurance recoveries only included recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. If the negotiations with the Representatives in early 2004 had resulted in an agreement, Cooper would have paid all the consideration when Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy and the 524(g) trust was formed and would have relinquished all rights to insurance. The lack of discounting and the limited recognition of insurance recoveries in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations were a significant component of the increase in the accrual for discontinued operations. While it is not possible to quantify, the accrual for discontinued operations also includes a premium for resolving the inherent uncertainty associated with resolving Abex Claims though the tort system. If Cooper is unable to reach a settlement to participate in the 20 Table of Contents Federal Mogul 524(g) trust, the accrual for discontinued operations potentially may have to be adjusted to the estimated liability and related insurance recoveries through the tort system. There are numerous assumptions that are required to project the liability in the tort system and Cooper has not completed the analysis and determined the liability that would be recorded under this scenario. Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Cooper included insurance recoveries of approximately $215 million pre tax in the fourth quarter 2005 charge to discontinued operations discussed above. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated and settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. On July 7, 2006, Cooper announced a revised agreement had been reached regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls 524(g) trust. The revised proposed settlement agreement remains subject to court approval and to certain other approvals. Key terms and aspects of the revised proposed settlement agreement include Cooper agreeing to pay $256 million in cash into the trust on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy, which includes elimination of the contribution of 1.4 million common shares to the trust by increasing the cash contribution. Removing Cooper common stock as a component of the revised settlement agreement eliminates additional charges and reversals of charges that may have occurred to account for any changes in the market value of Cooper stock. Cooper has or will receive $37.5 million from other parties toward its cash obligation. As in the December 2005 agreement, Cooper has agreed to make 25 annual payments of up to $20 million each to the trust with such payments being reduced by insurance proceeds. The minimum annual payment of $3 million in the December 2005 agreement has been eliminated. However, Cooper has agreed to make advances, beginning in 2015 through 2021, in the event the trust is unable to pay outstanding qualified claims at 100 percent of the value provided for in the trust agreement. In the event that advances are made by Cooper, they will accrue interest at 5 percent per annum, and will be repaid in years where excess funds are available in the trust or credited against the future year annual payments. The maximum advances are $36.6 million. Cooper will pay all defense costs through the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and will be reimbursed for indemnity payments to the extent such payments are eligible for payment from the trust. Cooper will retain the rights to receive the insurance proceeds related to indemnity and defense costs paid prior to the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy. For claims paid by the trust, the trust will retain 10 percent of any reimbursed insurance proceeds for the first 25 years and thereafter will retain 15 percent. As in the December 2005 proposed agreement, Cooper will forego certain claims and objections in the Federal Mogul bankruptcy proceedings. However, under the revised proposed agreement, which is subject to court approval, in the event that Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason, Cooper would receive a cash payment of $138 million on the date Federal Mogul emerges from bankruptcy and 20 percent of any insurance policy settlements related to the former Wagner business purchased by Federal Mogul in 1998. If Cooper participates in the trust, it will receive 12 percent of any Wagner insurance settlements. Accordingly, Cooper recorded a $20.3 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in the second quarter of 2006. The revised proposed settlement agreement was incorporated into Federal Moguls Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization filed on November 21, 2006. On February 2, 2007, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware approved the adequacy of Federal Moguls Supplemental Disclosure Statement describing the Fourth Amended Joint Plan of 21 Table of Contents Reorganization. The Court also approved the Voting Procedures and ordered that the voting period would expire on April 6, 2007. At a hearing on April 13, Federal Mogul announced that the Abex settlement had received a favorable vote of approximately 94%, well in excess of the required vote. In addition, any objections to the Fourth Amended Plan were filed with the Court by April 24, 2007 and hearings on confirmation of the Plan were held the week of July 9th. The Court also held hearings on October 1 and 2, 2007 for final briefs and hearings. At the conclusion of these hearings, the Court neither approved or rejected the revised proposed settlement agreement. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization on November 8, 2007, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts order on November 14, 2007. As part of its ruling, the Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul, which requires payment of $138 million to Cooper in the event Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason. The Bankruptcy Court stated that it would consider approving Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust at a later time, and that its order confirming the plan of reorganization and approving the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul does not preclude later approval of Coopers participation in the 524(g) trust. Accordingly, in an effort to continue working towards approval of Coopers participation in the trust and to address certain legal issues identified by the Court, Cooper, Pneumo Abex, Federal Mogul, and other plan supporters filed Modified Plan A Settlement Documents on December 13, 2007. The Modified Plan A Settlement Documents are the same in all material respects as the settlement documents filed with the Bankruptcy Court on July 7, 2006, except that the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents remove provisions relating to insurance, to which various insurers and others had objected, and require a final, non appealable order before Cooper is obligated to contribute to the asbestos claims settlement trust. If the Bankruptcy Court approves the modified settlement and that settlement is implemented, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, will continue to have access to Abex insurance policies, but the settlement no longer provides for payments of insurance proceeds to the trust. Briefing with respect to the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents was expected to be concluded by February 11, 2008, and the Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a hearing to address the modified settlement on February 25, 2008. There is no assurance, however, that the Court will render a decision on that date. Cooper will periodically assess the current overall adequacy of the accrual for discontinued operations, including updates to the assumptions regarding estimates of insurance recoveries, levels of defense and indemnity payments and other assumptions related to the matter. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper will record a charge or credit to the accrual for discontinued operations, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management continues to believe that a settlement on the terms of the revised agreement would allow Cooper to continue to grow through acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. The settlement agreement remains subject to bankruptcy court approval and other matters. At this time, the exact manner in which this issue will be resolved is not known. The accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy was $510.0 million at December 31, 2007 and $529.6 million at December 31, 2006. Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 5,108.4 $ 4,426.0 $ 3,997.5 Tools 794.7 758.6 732.9 Total Revenues $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 $ 4,730.4 22 Table of Contents See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues Revenues for 2007 increased 14% compared to 2006. The impact of currency translation was 2%, while acquisitions added approximately 4% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2007, which represented 87% of revenues, increased approximately 15% compared to 2006. Currency translation represented 2% of the revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased segment revenues by approximately 4%. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2007. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from the utility and industrial markets, international expansion and solid demand from U.S. nonresidential construction. Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2007, which represented 13% of revenues, increased approximately 5% compared to 2006, with currency translation representing 3% of the increase. Sales increases were driven by solid demand from aerospace, partially offset by soft demand in the motor vehicle end markets. Retail sales compared to 2006 were down slightly in a challenging U.S. market. 2006 vs. 2005 Revenues Revenues for 2006 increased 10% compared to 2005. The impact of currency translation was nominal, while acquisitions, net of a small divestiture, added approximately 2% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2006, which represented 85% of revenues, increased approximately 11% compared to 2005. Currency translation had a nominal impact on 2006 revenues. The impact of acquisitions, net of a small divestiture, increased segment revenues by approximately 2%. All of the Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2006. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from industrial and utility markets, improvement in non residential construction demand and successful expansion into developing international markets. These gains more than offset a decline in retail sales due to an overall slowdown in the residential market and ceding product lines in the channel over prices. Tools segment revenues for 2006, which represented 15% of revenues, increased approximately 4% compared to 2005. Currency translation increased revenues by approximately 1%. Increased sales of hand tools were driven by new product introductions, strength in industrial markets and international expansion. These gains offset the loss of chain product position at a major retailer and the overall slowdown in the residential market. Demand for industrial power tools strengthened and strong fourth quarter shipments led to modest year over year growth in revenue from the automated systems business. 23 Table of Contents Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 848.2 $ 703.2 $ 585.0 Tools 94.0 85.6 66.7 Total Segment Operating Earnings 942.2 788.8 651.7 General Corporate Expense 98.1 94.7 91.9 Operating Earnings 844.1 694.1 559.8 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 5.1 Interest Expense, net 51.0 51.5 64.8 Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 826.2 647.7 495.0 Income Tax Expense 133.9 163.4 103.9 Income from Continuing Operations 692.3 484.3 391.1 Charge Related to Discontinued Operations 20.3 227.2 Net Income $ 692.3 $ 464.0 $ 163.9 Diluted Earnings Per Share: Income from Continuing Operations $ 3.73 $ 2.58 $ 2.06 Charge from Discontinued Operations .11 1.19 Net Income $ 3.73 $ 2.47 $ .87 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2007 vs. 2006 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $942.2 million in 2007 compared to $788.8 million in 2006. Electrical Products segment 2007 operating earnings increased 21% to $848.2 million from $703.2 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 16.6% for 2007 compared to 15.9% for 2006. The increase was primarily due to leverage on fixed costs due to higher sales volumes and continued execution on productivity initiatives and lean manufacturing programs. Tools segment 2007 operating earnings increased 10% to $94.0 million compared to $85.6 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 11.8% compared to 11.3% in 2006. The modest core growth in sales volume was further leveraged through focus on productivity activities and cost reductions. 2006 vs. 2005 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $788.8 million in 2006 compared to $651.7 million in 2005. Electrical Products segment 2006 operating earnings increased 20% to $703.2 million from $585.0 million for 2005. Return on revenues was 15.9% for 2006 compared to 14.6% for 2005. The increase was primarily due to leverage of fixed costs on higher volume, favorable pricing offsetting inflation in production material costs, strong execution on productivity improvement initiatives, and a shift in sales mix away from the lower margin retail channel. 24 Table of Contents Tools segment 2006 operating earnings increased 28% to $85.6 million compared to $66.7 million for 2005. Return on revenues was 11.3% compared to 9.1% in 2005. The increase reflects leverage on fixed costs due to increased volume, improved sales mix, price increase realization and successful cost reduction initiatives. Restructuring During the fourth quarter of 2003, Cooper recorded net restructuring charges of $16.9 million, or $13.6 million after taxes ($.07 per diluted common share). This represented costs associated with restructuring projects undertaken in 2003 of $18.4 million, partially offset by a $1.5 million adjustment of estimates for restructuring projects initiated in 2002. The most significant action included in the charges was an announcement of the closing of Cooper Wiring Devices manufacturing operations in New York City. This action included plans for the withdrawal from a multiple employer pension plan. Cooper recorded a $12.5 million obligation as an estimate of Coopers portion of unfunded benefit obligations of the plan. In 2005, Cooper finalized activities related to withdrawal from the multi employer pension plan and recorded an additional $4.0 million pre tax charge. The multiple employer pension obligation was satisfied with a cash payment of $14.1 million in October 2006 representing full and final payment of the withdrawal liability. The remaining $5.9 million charge in 2003 primarily represented severance for announced employment reductions at several locations. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had paid $5.9 million and $5.9 million, respectively, for these actions, all of which was for severance costs. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense increased $3.4 million during 2007 to $98.1 million compared to $94.7 million for 2006. General Corporate expense includes $8.8 million and $4.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding these costs, General Corporate expense decreased $0.6 million in 2007 to $89.3 million compared to $89.9 million in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is primarily related to continued cost containment. General Corporate expenses increased $2.8 million during 2006 to $94.7 million compared to $91.9 million for 2005. General Corporate expense includes $4.8 million in 2006 for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years, and includes $6.5 million in 2005 for retirement and other costs related to senior executives. Excluding these items, General Corporate expense increased $4.5 million in 2006 primarily as a result of increased incentive compensation costs. Income from Belden agreement Income from Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007 compared to $5.1 million during 2006. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payment are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net for 2007 decreased $0.5 million from 2006 as a result of lower average interest rates offsetting higher average debt balances. Average debt balances were $1.05 billion and $1.04 billion and average interest rates were 5.64% and 5.70% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. Interest rate swaps that effectively converted this fixed rate debt to variable rate debt also matured at that time (see Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc., issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 25 Table of Contents 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75%. Interest expense, net for 2006 decreased $13.3 million from 2005 as a result of both lower average debt balances and average interest rates. Average debt balances were $1.04 billion and $1.26 billion, and average interest rates were 5.70% and 5.87% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decline in the average interest rates was primarily the result of conversion of debt balances to lower interest rate debt. The debt balance during 2005 included 6.25%, 300 million Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Cooper partially funded repayment of this Euro bond debt with $325 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes maturing in 2012. Proceeds from the notes were swapped to 272.6 million with cross currency interest rate swaps, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 16.2% for 2007, 25.2% for 2006 and 21.0% for 2005. The decrease in the 2007 rate is primarily due to an $83.8 million ($.45 per share) reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. Excluding these tax expense reductions, as well as the General Corporate costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years and income from Belden as discussed above, the effective tax rate for 2007 was 27.3%. The increase in tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily related to increased taxable earnings in 2006 without a corresponding increase in tax benefits. Charge Related to Discontinued Operations In the second quarter of 2006, Cooper recorded an additional charge of $20.3 million, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, related to potential asbestos obligations regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Cooper concluded that additional charges of $227.2 million, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit related to this matter were required in order to adjust the existing accrual to amounts within the likely range of outcomes. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $3.73 in 2007, $2.58 in 2006, and $2.06 in 2005. The income from the Belden agreement, increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years, and income tax reduction discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 67.0 % 67.7 % 68.1 % Tools 68.8 % 69.3 % 70.8 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 16.4 % 16.4 % 17.2 % Tools 19.4 % 19.4 % 20.1 % 2007 vs 2006 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.0% for 2007 compared to 67.7% for 2006. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of productivity initiatives and production leverage on higher volume, partially offset 26 Table of Contents by the impact of acquisitions. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.8% for 2007 compared to 69.3% for 2006. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects operating efficiency gains from productivity improvements and cost reductions and the lower level of sales of large low margin assembly systems projects. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 16.4% compared to 16.4% for 2006. The selling and administrative expenses percentage is unchanged, but was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives, offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations and continued investment in global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 19.4% compared to 19.4% for 2006, as productivity initiatives were offset by inflation. 2006 vs 2005 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.7% for 2006 compared to 68.1% for 2005. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of leverage on higher volumes, pricing offsetting inflationary pressures for production material and energy costs, successful productivity improvement initiatives, and a shift in sales mix away from the lower margin retail channel. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 69.3% for 2006 compared to 70.8% for 2005. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects continuing cost productivity improvements, favorable sales mix, and price increase realization. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2006 were 16.4% compared to 17.2% for 2005. The decrease in selling and administrative expenses percentage is primarily due to leveraging higher volumes, enterprise business system benefits, and benefits realized from prior year cost reductions. These performance improvements more than offset continued investment in key commercial and global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2006 were 19.4% compared to 20.1% for 2005. The decrease in the selling and administrative expenses percentage is primarily due to leverage on fixed costs and cost reduction activities. Cooper realizes certain costs and proceeds that are not directly attributable to the operating segments. These items are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2008 based on current expectations. Cooper expects low double digit growth in revenues for Electrical Products in 2008 from continuing global growth in utility and industrial market demand, successful market penetration from key growth initiatives and price increases in response to commodity and energy cost inflation partially offset by the soft U.S. residential markets and slower growth in the other U.S. markets. Acquisitions completed in 2007 or forecast to be completed in the first quarter of 2008 are expected to be approximately 7% of Electrical Products revenue growth. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects low single digit revenue growth due to the weakness in the residential and motor vehicle markets. Operating earnings are expected to grow more rapidly than revenues as a result of benefits from on going cost reduction programs, realizing further productivity improvements and leveraging of fixed costs. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $3.45 to $3.61, including the impact of acquisitions, integration costs and costs to reorganize the Tools segment. The above statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. The above statements are based on a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties. The primary economic assumptions include, without limitation: (1) continued growth in the United States and other economies; (2) no significant change in raw material or energy costs that are not realized through price increases; (3) realization of benefits of cost reduction programs (including implementing an Enterprise Business System) with no major disruptions from those programs currently underway; (4) no significant adverse changes in the 27 Table of Contents relationship of the U.S. dollar to the currencies of countries in which Cooper does business, and (5) no significant changes in the income tax laws or their interpretation. The estimates also assume, without limitation, no significant change in competitive conditions and such other risk factors as are discussed from time to time in Coopers periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. It is Coopers judgment that unit volumes in both the Electrical Products and Tools segments increased in 2007. During the three year period ending December 31, 2007, Cooper has experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation Over the three year period, inflation has had a relatively minor impact on Coopers results of operations. However, during 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. In each of the last three years, Cooper has realized price increases at least equal to material purchase cost increases. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base has mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for 2007 of 5.4 turns increased from 5.2 turns in 2006 primarily due to initiatives focused on improved inventory turns. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding deteriorated slightly, although this was due in part to acquisitions closing in December and the increased sales outside of the U.S. where commercial terms are generally longer. Coopers operating working capital increased $78.6 million during 2006. The increase included a $53.6 million increase in receivables and a $68.9 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $43.9 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $6.9 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average 28 Table of Contents quarterly operating working capital) for 2006 of 5.2 turns increased from 4.9 turns in 2005 primarily due to initiatives focused on reducing days sales outstanding and improved payables management. Inventory turns remained flat with 2005, as the company maintained focus on improving customer service. Coopers operating working capital decreased $40 million to $953 million in 2005 compared to $993 million in 2004. The decrease in operating working capital for 2005 was due to a $77 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $21 million increase in receivables and a $16 million increase in inventories. Receivables and inventories increased with higher sales volume and ongoing efforts to improve customer service. Payables increased on higher volumes and improved payables management through expanded leverage of enterprise business system capabilities. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for 2005 of 4.9 turns increased from 4.6 turns in 2004 due to revenue growth and a decline in operating working capital. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $795 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $191 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251 million, and $68 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $116 million, acquisitions of $336 million, dividends of $154 million, share purchases of $344 million, and $94 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290 million to fund a binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that is expected to close in the first quarter of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $601 million during 2006. This cash, plus an additional $29 million of cash and cash equivalents and $89 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $85 million, acquisitions of $280 million, dividends of $137 million and share purchases of $264 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $574 million for 2005. These funds, plus $200 million of cash and cash equivalents and $73 million of cash received from employee stock activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $97 million, dividends of $138 million, net debt repayments of $384 million and share purchases of $211 million during 2005. In connection with accounting for acquisitions, Cooper records, to the extent appropriate, accruals for the costs of closing duplicate facilities, severing redundant personnel and integrating the acquired businesses into existing Cooper operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had no accruals related to these activities. Cash flows from operating activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, is reduced by the amounts expended on the various accruals established in connection with each acquisition. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $400 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment and common stock repurchases. As discussed in Note 16 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Cooper has reached a revised agreement with the Representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants regarding settlement of Coopers contingent liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale to Federal Mogul. Cooper anticipates that any settlement would be funded from operating cash flows, existing cash, and debt proceeds (if required). Debt At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $232.8 million and $423.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had short term debt of $256.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper. 29 Table of Contents Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt with a combination of cash and committed credit facilities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Cooper had a $500 million committed credit facility, which matures in November 2009. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facility. The credit facility agreement is not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreement limit Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and require Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreement. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash and its committed credit facility to provide short term funding. The committed credit facility does not contain any provision, which makes its availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. On November 8, 2005, Cooper US, Inc., a subsidiary of Cooper, issued $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Payment of the notes is guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its subsidiaries. Proceeds of the notes were swapped with cross currency interest rate swaps to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75 %. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $99.5 million and $118.6 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Eighty six percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2007 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. 30 Table of Contents Payments Due Less than One to Four to After Total One Year Three Years Five Years Five Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 1,010.0 $ 100.1 $ 277.5 $ 324.1 $ 308.3 Short Term Debt 256.1 256.1 Noncancellable Operating Leases 114.9 24.4 35.6 19.2 35.7 Purchase Obligations 333.7 328.9 4.8 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 228.1 20.1 39.8 39.9 128.3 $ 1,942.8 $ 729.6 $ 357.7 $ 383.2 $ 472.3 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded non U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities, other postemployment benefit liabilities and environmental liabilities. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $57.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Capitalization On November 2, 2004, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2007, 4.3 million shares remained available to purchase under the authorization. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of ten million shares of common stock in addition to the remaining November 2, 2004 authorization. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. As of the date of this filing in 2008, Cooper had repurchased the 3 million shares intended to offset dilution from share issuances under equity compensation plans, as well as approximately 600,000 additional shares under the November 2, 2004 Cooper Board of Directors authorization discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under this authorization from time to time during 2008. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to purchase shares of Coopers Common stock or fund acquisitions. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 30.8%, 28.9% and 31.7%, respectively. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 14, 2007, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Cooper common stock and increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.10 cents per share to $.84 per share. The record date for the stock split was February 28, 2007 and the distribution date was March 15, 2007. On February 9, 2005, Coopers Board of Directors increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by eight cents per share to $.74. All share and per share information presented in this Form 10 K has been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of the stock split. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $116 million in 2007, $85 million in 2006 and $97 million in 2005. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $120 to 31 Table of Contents $130 million in 2008. Projected expenditures for 2008 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products, continued implementation of new business systems and cost reduction programs. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2007 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 100.1 $ 275.2 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 300.3 $ 1,002.9 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 5.7 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Cross currency interest rate swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % Average receive rate 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts mature during 2008. The contracts related to funding of the MTL tender offer have been excluded due to the very short terms of those contracts. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 32 Table of Contents 2008 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 10.7 Average contract rate 1.408 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 88.8 Average contract rate 1.440 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 91.5 Average contract rate 1.030 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 26.5 Average contract rate .0884 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 220.6 Average contract rate 1.977 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 18.5 Average contract rate 1.467 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 10.6 Average contract rate 1.998 Great Britain Pound Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 14.5 Average contract rate 2.007 The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2006 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. The average pay rate on interest rate swaps is based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2006. 33 Table of Contents 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 300.7 $ 100.3 $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 1,003.3 Average interest rate 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.4 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Interest rate swaps: Fixed to variable: Notional amount (1) $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 Average pay rate 7.38 % 7.38 % Average receive rate 5.25 % 5.25 % Cross currency interest rate swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (2) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % 3.5275 % Average receive rate 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % 5.232 % (1) Cooper entered into interest rate swaps to effectively convert its fixed rate $300 million senior unsecured debt due in July 2007 to variable rate debt. (2) Cooper entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2006. The contracts matured during 2007. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 2007 (in millions, where applicable) Euro Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 143.9 Average contract rate 1.288 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 121.7 Average contract rate 1.306 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 76.0 Average contract rate .8913 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.9 Average contract rate .0908 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. 34 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
