Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Electrical Products The Electrical Products segment manufactures, markets and sells electrical and circuit protection products, including fittings, support systems, enclosures, specialty connectors, wiring devices, plugs, receptacles, lighting fixtures and controls, hazardous duty electrical equipment, intrinsically safe explosion proof instrumentation, fuses, emergency lighting, fire detection and mass notification systems and security products for use in residential, commercial and industrial construction, maintenance and repair applications. The segment also manufactures, markets and sells products for use by utilities and in industry for electrical power transmission and distribution, including distribution switchgear, transformers, transformer terminations and accessories, capacitors, voltage regulators, surge arresters, energy automation solutions and other related power systems components. The principal raw material requirements include: steel, copper, aluminum, aluminum ingots, brass, tin, lead, plastics, electronic components and insulating materials including transformer oil. These raw materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. The segments product lines are marketed directly to original equipment manufacturers and utilities and to a variety of end users through major distributor chains, retail home centers, hardware outlets and thousands of independent distributors. Tools The Tools segment manufactures, markets and sells hand tools for industrial, construction, electronics and consumer markets; automated assembly systems for industrial markets; and electric and pneumatic industrial power tools, related electronics and software control and monitoring systems for general industry, primarily automotive and aerospace manufacturers. The principal raw material requirements include: flat and bar stock steel, brass, copper, fiberglass, aluminum, metal castings and forgings, wood, plastic pellets and plastic sheet. These materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries. Demand for nonpowered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels and industrial activity in major industrial countries and by consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production and general industrial production. The segments products are sold by the company sales force, independent distributors and retailers. 4 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT Electrical Products Major Products and Brands Access Cabinets, E2 Cabinets and Enviroshield electrical enclosures. Kwik Wire cable support systems. Arktite and eXLink plugs and receptacles. Kyle distribution switchgear. Ametrix, Corelite and Neo Ray indirect lighting products. Limitron electric fuses. ARIES wireless communication for vacuum interrupter, distribution switchgear. Low Peak electric fuses. Arrow Hart industrial plugs and connectors. Lumire specification grade landscape lighting. Aspire and Siena decorative wiring devices. MadahCom WAVES notification solutions. Aspire RF radio frequency controls, switches and receptacles. Magnum terminal strips and disconnect blocks. AtLite commercial, exit and emergency lighting. MagneX interrupting device. B Line support systems, enclosures, fasteners. McGraw Edison and Lumark indoor and outdoor lighting. Burton undersea connectors. McGraw Edison transformer components, cable accessories and fuses. Bussmann and Buss electrical and electronic fuses. MEDC signals and alarms. Cam Lok electrical connectors. Media Sync multi media wiring systems Cannon Technologies, Cybectec and Cyme software and automation technologies. Metalux fluorescent lighting. Capri cable accessories and flexible conduits. Mobile X Ray specialty plugs and receptacles. CEAG emergency lighting systems and explosion protected electrical materials. Mini Line molded to cable miniature connectors. Cent R Rail and Redi Rail metal rack units and cable trays. MTL intrinsically safe interfacing products and instrumentation. Champ and Hazard Gard HID and fluorescent lighting. MTL Surge Technologies and Atlantic Scientific surge protection equipment. Chico conduit sealing compound. MWS modular wiring systems. Clarity LED architectural lighting fixtures. Myers electrical hubs. Coiltronics inductors and transformers. Nortem electrical construction materials. Combined Technologies current limiting fuses. NOVA reclosers, sectionalizers and switches. Condulet fittings and outlet bodies. Novitas occupancy sensors and switch packs. Cooper Fire, Fulleon and Nugelec fire detection systems. Omnex radio remote control products and industrial wireless networking solutions. Cooper Interconnect specialty connectors and cables. Optima fuseholders. Cooper Power Systems distribution transformers, power capacitors, voltage PCI digital lighting controls. regulators, surge arresters and SCADA master stations. Perf O Grip plank metal grating. Cooper Wiring Devices sockets, connectors and wall plates. Polaron intelligent lighting control solutions. Crompton lighting fixtures. Portfolio architectural recessed lighting. Crouse Hinds and CEAG electrical construction materials and Crouse Hinds aviation lighting products. Posi Break electrical connectors. Posi Lok electrical panel units. CUBEFuse fuses, fuse holders and fuse boxes. Power Lock wiring devices, receptacles, caps and covers. Domex electrical construction materials. PowerPlus panel boards. Domex Bond Rojo coated conduit system (total protection against corrosion). PowerStor carbon aerogel supercapacitors. Domex Ground (ground systems). Pretronica and Univel emergency lighting and power systems. Dura Cooper and Dura Green epoxy coatings. RCM cable management systems. Edisol fluid used in capacitors. Regalsafe signaling and life saving apparatus. Edison and Edison Pro relays and fusegear. Regent security lighting systems. Edison Series Metering residential and commercial meter bases. Roam Secure personal and regional alerting. Eletromec DIN style fuses. Roam Secure RSAN text based alerting and mass notification systems. ELLK 92 explosion protected fluorescent light fixture. Royer wiring devices, sockets and switches. Elpro industrial wireless equipment. RTK process alarm equipment. Emerald consumer recessed and track lighting. Ruff in prefabricated mounting and support systems. EMSA power transformers. SAFEPATH voice evacuation systems and accessories. EnviroVR voltage regulator filled with Envirotemp FR3. Scantronic and Menvier security systems. Envirotemp dielectric fluids. Selectcom communications modules. EX power capacitors. Shaper specification and commercial grade lighting fixtures. EX Cell and NexT industrial enclosures. Shock Sentry circuit protective devices. Exactra panel boards. SMP substation modernization platform. Fail Safe high abuse, clean room and vandal resistant lighting fixtures. SpecOne panel boards. F.A.S.T. underfloor cable tray system. Spectra panel boards. Flex Station panel boards. Stabex explosion protected torch. Flextray wire mesh cable tray. Streetworks outdoor lighting. FR3 dielectric fluid. Subgate mini remote terminal units. Fusetron electric fuses and protectors. Sure Lites exit and emergency lighting. GH specialty connectors. Sure Power DC electrical system management products. Gecma visualization systems. SurgBloc electrical voltage receptacles and surge suppressors. General Connectors military connectors. Traction Tread perforated panels. Grate Lock interlocking plank grating system. TransX transient voltage protection devices. GridAdvisor remote detection of system faults. TrueCycle asset monitoring. Grip Strut safety grating. UltraSIL surge arresters. GS Metals wire management and support systems. VaporGard incandescent clear globe lighting fixtures. Halo recessed and track lighting fixtures. VariGap and VariStar surge arresters. Hi Tech gas analysis equipment. Viking miniature circular connectors. Hart Lock electrical receptacles, caps, connectors and accessories. VSS visual substation. Hyundai explosion proof electrical products. WAVES mass notification systems and accessories. INVUE outdoor architectural lighting. Wheelock notification appliances, devices and signals. io Lighting LED architectural lighting fixtures. Willsher Quick electrical enclosures. IriS lighting systems. WPI connectors and cable assemblies. JSB, Luminox and Menvier emergency lighting and fire detection systems. Yukon software platform. Karp, Edison, Mercury and BS electrical fuses. Tools Major Products and Brands Airetool, Automated Systems, Cleco, DGD, Dotco,Gardner Denver*, and Rotor Tool industrial power tools and assembly equipment. Kahnetics dispensing systems. Lufkin measuring tapes. Apex screwdriver bits, impact sockets and universal joints. Master Power industrial air tools. Belzer pliers, wrenches, sockets, and hex keys. Merrill plate clamps (chain line). Brewer Titchener blocks (chain line). Metronix servos and drive controls. Campbell chain products. Nicholson files, saws, pliers, wrenches, Caulkmaster caulking dispenser. tapes, screwdrivers, sockets, and drill bits. Collins machetes, shovels and axes. Plumb hammers. Crescent pliers and wrenches. Utica torque measuring and controls. Diamond farrier tools and horseshoes. Weller soldering equipment. Disston pliers. Wire Wrap solderless connection equipment. Erem precision cutters and tweezers. Wiss and H.K. Porter cutting products. Filtronic fume extraction equipment. Xcelite screwdrivers and nutdrivers. * Gardner Denver is a registered trademark of Gardner Denver, Inc. and is used by Cooper Industries under license. 5 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT (Continued) ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Major Markets Fuses and circuit protection products are utilized in products for the construction, industrial, transportation and consumer markets and to manufacturers in the electrical, electronic, telecommunications and transportation industries. Lighting fixtures are utilized in residential construction, industrial, institutional and commercial building complexes, shopping centers, parking lots, roadways, and sports facilities. Electrical power products are used by utilities and commercial and industrial power users. Electrical construction materials are used in commercial, residential and industrial projects, by utilities, airports and wastewater treatment plants and in the process and energy industries. Emergency lighting, fire detection and security systems are installed in residential, commercial and industrial applications. Support systems and enclosures are used in industrial, commercial and telecommunications complexes. Wiring devices are used in the construction, renovation, maintenance and repair of residential, commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors for use in general construction and renovation, plant maintenance, process and energy applications, shopping centers, parking lots, sports facilities, and data processing and telecommunications systems; through distributors and direct to utilities and manufacturers for use in electronic equipment for consumer, industrial, government and military applications; through distributors and direct to retail home centers and hardware outlets; and direct to original equipment manufacturers of appliances, tools, machinery and electronic equipment. TOOLS Major Markets Power tools and assembly systems are used by general industrial manufacturers, particularly durable goods producers and original equipment manufacturers, such as those in the aerospace and automobile industries. Hand tools are used in a variety of industrial, electronics, agricultural, construction and consumer applications. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors and agents to general industry, particularly automotive and aircraft; through distributors and wholesalers to hardware stores, lumberyards and department stores; and direct to original equipment manufacturers, home centers, specialty stores, department stores, mass merchandisers and hardware outlets. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and performance are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Businesses Are Subject to Competitive Pressures. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service, innovation and or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our competitors for certain products have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for Our Products Is Sensitive to the Economic Conditions in the Markets We Serve. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction and renovation markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. Demand for non powered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels, industrial activity and consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production. Reduced demand due to economic and market conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Development and Introduction of New Products and Solutions Affect our Ability to Grow Revenues and Improve Profitability. Development and introduction of new products that increase our customers productivity and efficiency, provide enhanced energy efficiency, introduce new technology solutions, enhance safety and conform to electrical standards in regions and local countries contribute significantly to our revenue growth and profitability. We continually invest in new products and solutions and are not dependent upon the success of any one product or solution. However, our overall success depends on continuous new products and solutions being introduced and accepted by our customers. Price Increases or Significant Shortages of Raw Materials and Components Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs and the Competitive Position of Our Products. Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, aluminum, electronic components and plastics and, to a lesser degree brass, tin, lead, fiberglass, wood and insulating materials including transformer oil. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place requires that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third party suppliers or majority owned 7 Table of Contents joint venture operations in low cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. We believe that our operations in emerging markets such as China, India and Malaysia are subject to greater risks related to these political and economic uncertainties as compared to most countries where Cooper has operations. Our Key Strategic Initiatives Affect Our Ability to Grow Revenues, Control Costs and Improve Productivity. Our operating model is built on a platform of key strategic initiatives that are designed to grow revenues, control costs and improve productivity. Our ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives affects our revenues and operating costs. Also, our operations could be disrupted by manufacturing rationalizations. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses. We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Liability Exposure for Asbestos Related Claims. We have owned businesses that produced and sold products that contained asbestos. We, therefore, have potential liability arising from individuals claiming illnesses from exposure to asbestos. Insurance policies satisfy portions of the claim settlements and related legal costs. Many of the asbestos claims arise from our former Abex Friction Products business that was sold to Federal Mogul Corporation and subject to Federal Mogul Corporations bankruptcy plan of reorganization. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued a ruling denying the Plan A Settlement, resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement under which Cooper will resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that was sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As a result of the Bankruptcy Court ruling, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on various assumptions. The key assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of ongoing negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if the assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimates of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. Further information regarding Coopers asbestos liability is discussed under Item 3 Legal Proceedings. 8 Table of Contents We Are Subject To Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results. We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, tort, employment claims, intellectual property claims, and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances and other waste materials. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use consultants to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent than in the past and are expected to continue to become more so. Violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Such violations could also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, and other costs and claims. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and related state laws and regulations, liability can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. We Could Incur a Material Amount of Taxes if There Are Unfavorable Changes in the Tax Laws or Their Interpretation. We Have Risks Relating to Our Reorganization as a Bermuda Company. Changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. On May 22, 2002, we reorganized Cooper and became a publicly traded Bermuda company. Among other benefits, the inversion reorganization improved our worldwide effective tax rate and increased our cash flow. Recently, and in prior years, there have been and we expect that there may continue to be legislative efforts in Congress that would eliminate or reduce the tax benefit realized by certain companies which have changed their country of incorporation. If enacted into law, such proposed legislation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. The U.S. Federal Government and certain states and municipalities have enacted legislation intended to deny federal funding and government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside the U.S. For instance, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2008 signed into law in December 2007 includes a provision that prohibits government contracts with U.S. companies that have reincorporated outside the United States. We cannot provide any assurance that the impact on us of any adopted or proposed legislation in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. 9 Table of Contents Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES On December 31, 2008, the plants and other facilities used by Cooper throughout the world contained an aggregate of approximately 21.8 million square feet of space, of which approximately 75 percent was owned and 25 percent was leased. The charts on the next page show the number of employees, square footage of facilities owned and leased and location of manufacturing facilities for each industry segment. 10 Table of Contents Square Footage of Plants and Facilities Number of Number and Nature of Facilities (in millions) Segment Employees Manufacturing Warehouse Sales Other Owned Leased Electrical Products 25,959 111 26 99 4 12.1 5.0 Tools 4,594 28 5 6 4.3 0.3 Other 649 2 0.1 Total 31,202 139 31 105 6 16.4 5.4 * Multi purpose facilities at a single location are listed in each applicable column. Manufacturing Plant Locations Europe United (Other United South Republic Saudi Segment States Than UK) Kingdom Mexico America Australia Canada China of China India Korea Malaysia Arabia Electrical Products 48 11 18 10 2 2 3 9 1 4 1 1 1 Tools 12 8 3 2 1 1 1 Total 60 19 18 13 4 3 4 10 1 4 1 1 1 * Some facilities are shared by Electrical Products and Tools operations. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 1. Legal Proceedings Discontinued Operations Liability In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further below, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying Coopers participation in the proposed Federal Mogul 524(g) trust resulting in implementation of the previously approved Plan B Settlement. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. Based on information provided by representatives of Federal Mogul and recent claims experience, from August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2008, a total of 146,175 Abex Claims were filed, of which 122,487 claims have been resolved leaving 23,688 Abex Claims pending at December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 2,641 claims were filed and 8,403 claims were resolved. Since August 28, 1998, the average indemnity payment for resolved Abex Claims was $2,072 before insurance. A total of $147.7 million was spent on defense costs for the period August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2008. Historically, existing insurance coverage has provided 50% to 80% of the total defense and indemnity payments for Abex Claims. However, insurance recovery is currently at a lower percentage (approximately 30%) due to exhaustion of primary layers of coverage and litigation with certain excess insurers. 2005 2007 In December 2005, Cooper reached an initial agreement in negotiations with the representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants (the Representatives) regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524(g) asbestos trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper would have resolved its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to court approval and certain other approvals. Future claims would have been resolved through the bankruptcy trust. Although the final determination of whether Cooper would participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust was unknown, Coopers management concluded that, at the date of the filing of its 2005 Form 10 K, the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a settlement approximating the December 2005 proposed settlement. Accordingly, the accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy was $526.3 million at December 31, 2005. The December 31, 2005 discontinued operations accrual included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and included $215 million of insurance recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. Throughout 2006 and 2007, Cooper continued to believe that the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a revised settlement with Cooper resolving its asbestos obligations through participation in the proposed Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. While the details of the proposed settlement agreement evolved during the on going negotiations throughout 2006 and 2007, the underlying principles of the proposed settlement arrangements being negotiated principally included fixed payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were subject to reduction for insurance proceeds received in the future. 12 Table of Contents As a result of the then current status of settlement negotiations, Cooper recorded a $20.3 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in the second quarter of 2006 to reflect the revised terms of the proposed settlement agreement at that time. The discontinued operations accrual was $509.1 million and $529.6 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and included insurance recoveries of $230 million and $239 million, respectively, where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization on November 8, 2007, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts order on November 14, 2007. As part of its ruling, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Plan B Settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul, which would require payment of $138 million to Cooper in the event Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason, or if Cooper elected not to participate or to pursue participation in the trust. The Bankruptcy Court stated that it would consider approving Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust at a later time, and that its order confirming the plan of reorganization and approving the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul did not preclude later approval of Coopers participation in the 524(g) trust. Accordingly, in an effort to continue working towards approval of Coopers participation in the trust and to address certain legal issues identified by the Court, Cooper, Pneumo Abex, Federal Mogul, and other plan supporters filed the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents on December 13, 2007. The Modified Plan A Settlement Documents would have required Cooper to make an initial payment of $248.5 million in cash to the Federal Mogul trust upon implementation of Plan A with additional annual payments of up to $20 million each due over 25 years. If the Bankruptcy Court had approved the modified settlement and that settlement was implemented, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, would have continued to have access to Abex insurance policies. 2008 During the first quarter of 2008, the Bankruptcy Court concluded hearings on Plan A. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received in October 2008 the $138 million payment, plus interest of $3 million, from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and will continue to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. Additionally, under Plan B, Cooper has access to Abex insurance policies. The accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy and a progression of the activity is presented in the following table assuming resolution through participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust up until September 30, 2008 when the accounting was adjusted to reflect the Plan B Settlement. Nine Months Ended Twelve Months Ended September 30, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) (in millions) Accrual at beginning of period (under Plan A) $ 509.1 $ 529.6 $ 526.3 Indemnity and defense payments (16.9 ) (52.9 ) (36.8 ) Insurance recoveries 25.4 39.3 12.7 Discontinued operations charge 31.7 Other (1.6 ) (6.9 ) (4.3 ) Accrual at end of period (under Plan A) * $ 516.0 $ 509.1 $ 529.6 * The $516.0 million liability reflects the estimated liability under Plan A immediately prior to adjusting the accounting on September 30, 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. The following table presents the separate assets and liabilities under the Plan B settlement and the cash activity subsequent to the September 30, 2008 Plan B Settlement date. December September 31, 2008 30, 2008 (in millions) Asbestos liability analysis: Total liability for unpaid, pending and future indemnity and defense costs at end of period $ 815.1 $ 823.3 Asbestos receivable analysis Receivable from Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate (received in Oct. 2008) $ $ 141.0 Insurance receivable for previously paid claims and insurance settlements 74.6 72.7 Insurance in place agreements available for pending and future claims 117.7 119.6 Total estimated asbestos receivable at end of period $ 192.3 $ 333.3 Three Months Ended December 31, 2008 (in millions) Cash Flow: Indemnity and defense payments $ (7.9 ) Payment from Federal Mogul Bankrupty Estate 141.0 Other (0.3 ) Net cash flow $ 132.8 Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper estimates that the liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $815.1 million. The amount included for unpaid indemnity and defense costs is not significant at December 31, 2008. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. However, a discounted value would likely be approximately 60% or less of the $815.1 million liability recorded. The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, there can be no assurance that these studies, or other assumptions, will not vary significantly from the estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believed were reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $735 to $950 million (undiscounted). 14 Table of Contents Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2008, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $192.3 million, of which $74.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $192.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2008 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. Critical Accounting Assumptions The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. Other Matters Cooper and its subsidiaries are defendants or otherwise involved in a number of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We estimate the range of our liability related to pending litigation when we believe the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. When a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the lawsuits or claims. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and claims and revise our estimates. Due to uncertainties related to the resolution of lawsuits and claims, the ultimate outcome may differ from our estimates. In the opinion of management and based on liability accruals provided, our ultimate exposure with respect to these pending lawsuits and claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or cash flows, although they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular reporting period. 15 Table of Contents The U.S. Federal Government has enacted legislation intended to deny certain federal funding and government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside the United States, including Section 745 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110 161), Section 724(c) of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109 115), and 6 U.S.C. 395(b) of The Homeland Security Act. The Company has self reported to the Department of Defense certain transactions aggregating approximately $8 million with U.S. government entities which may be subject to the legislation. At the time of this filing, it is too early to determine whether any fines or penalties may be assessed against the Company. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Cooper Class A common shares (symbol CBE) are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Options for Cooper Class A common shares are listed on the NYSE Alternext U.S. exchange. Cooper Class B common shares are not publicly traded. The Class B common shares were issued to Cooper Industries, Inc. in connection with the reincorporation merger in May 2002 whereby Cooper Industries, Inc., formerly the publicly traded parent company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cooper Industries, Ltd. Effective January 1, 2005, the Class B common shares were transferred to Cooper US, Inc., which is a wholly owned Cooper subsidiary. Cooper US, Inc. is the only holder of Class B common shares. The holders of Class B common shares are not entitled to vote, except as to matters for which the Bermuda Companies Act specifically requires voting rights for otherwise non voting shares. Cooper Industries, Ltd. and Cooper subsidiaries holding Class A or Class B common shares have entered into a voting agreement whereby any Class A or Class B common shares held by such Cooper subsidiaries will be voted (or abstained from voting) in the same proportion as the other holders of Class A common shares. Therefore, Class A and Class B common shares held by Cooper subsidiaries do not dilute the voting power of the Class A common shares held by the public. As of January 31, 2009 there were 20,284 record holders of Cooper Class A common shares and one holder of Cooper Class B common shares. The high and low quarterly sales prices for the past two years of Cooper Class A common shares as reported by Dow Jones Company, Inc., are as follows: Quarter 1 2 3 4 2008 High $ 53.25 $ 47.55 $ 49.64 $ 40.27 Low 35.37 39.40 36.96 19.32 2007 High $ 48.12 $ 58.20 $ 59.05 $ 57.25 Low 40.00 45.03 47.00 47.07 Annual cash dividends declared on Coopers Class A and Class B common shares during 2005 and 2006 were $.74 a share ($.185 a quarter). On February 14, 2007, the Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly dividend to $.21 a share (or $.84 on an annualized basis). This represented a 14 percent increase over the prior dividend rate. On February 14, 2007, the Board of Directors also approved a 2 for 1 16 Table of Contents stock split to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2007. The increase in the dividend rate was effective for the dividend paid on April 2, 2007. On February 12, 2008, the Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly dividend to $.25 per share (or $1.00 on an annualized basis). This represents a 19 percent increase over the prior dividend rate. Based on Coopers capital structure in 2008, all of the dividend distributions paid by it in 2008 are treated as a return of capital to its shareholders. For dividends payable in 2009, Cooper currently anticipates that based on its capital structure all or a substantial portion of its dividend distributions will be treated as a return of capital to its shareholders. For the dividends payable in 2006, 2007 and 2008, Coopers subsidiaries that held Class A and Class B shares received dividends on such shares. The following table reflects activity related to equity securities purchased by Cooper during the three months ended December 31, 2008: Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Shares Maximum Number of Total Number of Purchased as Part of Shares that May Yet Be Shares Average Price Publicly Announced Plans Purchased Under the Period Purchased Paid per Share or Programs Plans or Programs(1) As of 9/30/08 9,683,549 10/01/08 10/31/08 3,552,400 $ 24.75 3,552,400 6,131,149 11/01/08 11/30/08 1,418,678 $ 23.36 1,418,678 4,712,471 12/01/08 12/31/08 1,683,036 $ 33.65 1,683,036 3,029,435 (2) Total 6,654,114 $ 28.85 6,654,114 (1) On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of ten million shares of common stock, which is reflected in the above table. On February 9, 2009, Coopers Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares, which is not reflected in the above table. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time during 2009. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. (2) For 2009, Coopers current estimate is that one million shares will be issued under equity compensation plans, which is not reflected in the above table. Further information required by this Item is set forth under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in Coopers Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with Coopers 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. Bermuda has exchange controls which apply to residents in respect of the Bermudian dollar. As an exempt company, Cooper is considered to be nonresident for such controls; consequently, there are no Bermuda governmental restrictions on the Companys ability to make transfers and carry out transactions in all other currencies, including currency of the United States. Under existing Bermuda law, there is no Bermuda income or withholding tax on dividends paid by Cooper to its shareholders. Furthermore, no Bermuda tax or other levy is payable on the sale or other transfer (including by gift or on the death of the shareholder) of Cooper common shares (other than by shareholders resident in Bermuda). 17 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth selected historical financial data for Cooper for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2008. The selected historical financial information shown below has been derived from Coopers audited consolidated financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with Coopers consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Years Ending December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share data) INCOME STATEMENT DATA: Revenues $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 $ 4,730.4 $ 4,462.9 Income from continuing operations $ 615.6 $ 692.3 $ 484.3 $ 391.1 $ 339.8 Income (charge) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 16.6 (20.3 ) (227.2 ) Net income $ 632.2 $ 692.3 $ 464.0 $ 163.9 $ 339.8 INCOME PER COMMON SHARE DATA: Basic Income from continuing operations $ 3.54 $ 3.80 $ 2.64 $ 2.12 $ 1.84 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .10 (.11 ) (1.23 ) Net income $ 3.64 $ 3.80 $ 2.53 $ .89 $ 1.84 Diluted Income from continuing operations $ 3.51 $ 3.73 $ 2.58 $ 2.06 $ 1.79 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .09 (.11 ) (1.19 ) Net income $ 3.60 $ 3.73 $ 2.47 $ .87 $ 1.79 BALANCE SHEET DATA (at December 31): Total assets $ 6,164.9 $ 6,133.5 $ 5,374.8 $ 5,215.1 $ 5,407.8 Long term debt, excluding current maturities 932.5 909.9 702.8 1,002.9 698.6 Shareholders equity 2,607.4 2,841.9 2,475.3 2,205.2 2,286.5 CASH DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER COMMON SHARE $ 1.00 $ .84 $ .74 $ .74 $ .70 In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products segment for $1.9 billion in proceeds. Discontinued operations charges of $20.3 million, net of a $11.4 million income tax benefit in 2006 and $227.2 million, net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit in 2005 were recorded for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products segment sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. In 2008, discontinued operations income of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, was recorded to reflect ongoing resolution of the potential liabilities through the tort system when the Bankruptcy Court denied Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns and other allowances was $89.8 million and $95.1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $77.0 million at December 31, 2008 and $77.9 million at December 31, 2007. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. Total net periodic pension benefit cost was $7.6 million in 2008, $3.9 million in 2007 and $31.0 million in 2006. During 2006, Cooper announced that effective January 1, 2007, future benefit accruals would cease under the Cooper U.S. Salaried Pension Plan. Cooper recognized a $4.2 million curtailment loss in 2006 as a result of this action. During 2006, Cooper also recognized a $4.1 million settlement loss primarily in connection with the retirement of senior executives. Total net periodic pension benefit cost declined in 2007 primarily due to the elimination of service cost on the salaried pension plan and non recurrence of the 2006 losses discussed above. Total net periodic pension benefit cost in 2008 includes a $3.7 million curtailment loss as a result of ceasing future benefit accruals for two defined benefit plans in the U.K. Beginning in 2007, Cooper contributed cash equal to 3% of compensation to the Cooper Retirement Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (CO SAV). Cooper further increased the company matching contribution under the CO SAV plan to a dollar for dollar match up to 6% of employee contributions. The estimated net periodic pension benefit cost of $26.1 million for 2009 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 6.25% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic 19 Table of Contents postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.7 million in 2008 and 2007. Cooper announced the elimination of postretirement life insurance for active employees effective January 1, 2007. As a result, Cooper recognized a $3.2 million curtailment gain in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the curtailment gain, net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.8 million in 2006. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately ($0.4) million in 2009, assuming a discount rate of 6.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards is estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted is measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. During 2006, 2007 and through the third quarter of 2008, performance goals were assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper revised its assumption to lower the performance goals assumed to be achieved to below the maximum level for performance awards granted in 2007 and 2008. The revised achievement levels assumed for the 2007 and 2008 performance award grants considers the past performance and current expectations of future performance in the respective three year performance period. As a result of lowering the performance goals assumed to be achieved, Cooper adjusted previously recognized stock based compensation expense by reducing expense in the fourth quarter of 2008 by $11.3 million. Total stock based compensation expense was $23.1 million in 2008, $39.0 million in 2007 and $29.1 million in 2006. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $29.4 million at December 31, 2008 and $30.2 million at December 31, 2007. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 20 Table of Contents Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. The resolution of tax audits and litigation could have a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized. In 2008 and 2007, Cooper reduced income tax expense by $23.2 million ($.13 per share) and $83.8 million ($.45 per share), respectively, as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, favorable audit settlements and other matters. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records goodwill related to business acquisitions when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Cooper designated January 1 as the date of its annual goodwill impairment test. If an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, an interim impairment test would be performed between annual tests. The first step of the SFAS No. 142 two step goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily by estimating the present value of future cash flows. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed. The second step compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to the carrying amount of the goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss. The results of step one of the goodwill impairment tests did not require the completion of step two of the test for any reporting unit in 2008. Cooper has designated eight reporting units, consisting of seven units in the Electrical Products reportable operating segment plus the Tools reportable operating segment. There are inherent uncertainties and management judgment in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. If actual fair value is less than Coopers estimates, Cooper could be required to record an impairment to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value. Cooper had goodwill of $2.57 billion and $2.54 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further in Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and will continue to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. 21 Table of Contents As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper estimates that the liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $815.1 million. The amount included for unpaid indemnity and defense costs is not significant at December 31, 2008. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. However, a discounted value would likely be approximately 60% or less of the $815.1 million liability recorded. The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, there can be no assurance that these studies, or other assumptions, will not vary significantly from the estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believed were reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $735 to $950 million (undiscounted). Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2008, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $192.3 million, of which $74.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $192.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2008 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies 22 Table of Contents include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper will record a charge or income related to the discontinued operations asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 5,755.7 $ 5,108.4 $ 4,426.0 Tools 765.6 794.7 758.6 Total Revenues $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues Revenues for 2008 increased approximately 11% compared to 2007. The impact of currency translation was less than 1%, while acquisitions added approximately 7% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2008, which represent slightly more than 88% of revenues, increased approximately 13% compared to 2007. Currency translation had a minimal impact on revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2008 by nearly 8% over 2007 revenue levels. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses reported increased revenues for 2008. Revenue growth was a result of solid demand from energy, industrial, international expansion and nonresidential construction markets through the first nine months of 2008. Softness in the U.S residential market throughout the year and declines in all global markets during the fourth quarter of the year partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2008, which represent about 12% of revenues, decreased approximately 4% compared to 2007. Currency translation represented a 2% increase for reported revenues with limited increase from acquisitions. Revenue declines were driven by weak retail markets and soft demand from the motor vehicle end markets. Tools segment experienced significant weakness in most markets and geographies during the fourth quarter of 2008, particularly in the U.S. retail channel. 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues Revenues for 2007 increased 14% compared to 2006. The impact of currency translation was 2%, while acquisitions added approximately 4% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2007, which represented 87% of revenues, increased approximately 15% compared to 2006. Currency translation represented 2% of the revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased segment revenues by approximately 4%. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2007. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from the utility and industrial markets, international expansion and solid demand from U.S. nonresidential construction. Ongoing softness in the U.S. residential markets partially offset these increases. 23 Table of Contents Tools segment revenues for 2007, which represented 13% of revenues, increased approximately 5% compared to 2006, with currency translation representing 3% of the increase. Sales increases were driven by solid demand from aerospace, partially offset by soft demand in the motor vehicle end markets. Retail sales compared to 2006 were down slightly in a challenging U.S. market. Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 930.3 $ 848.2 $ 703.2 Tools 81.1 94.0 85.6 Restructuring and asset impairment charges (52.4 ) Total segment operating earnings 959.0 942.2 788.8 General corporate expense 81.4 98.1 94.7 Operating earnings 877.6 844.1 694.1 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 5.1 Interest expense, net 70.4 51.0 51.5 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 807.2 826.2 647.7 Income tax expense 191.6 133.9 163.4 Income from continuing operations 615.6 692.3 484.3 Income (charge) from discontinued operations 16.6 (20.3 ) Net income $ 632.2 $ 692.3 $ 464.0 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 3.51 $ 3.73 $ 2.58 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .09 (.11 ) Net income $ 3.60 $ 3.73 $ 2.47 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2008 vs. 2007 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $959.0 million in 2008 compared to $942.2 million in 2007. Electrical Products segment 2008 operating earnings increased 10% to $930.3 million from $848.2 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 16.2% for 2008 compared to 16.6% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions and in the second half of the year inflationary costs for commodities not fully offset by available market price increases in certain product lines. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2008, production volumes were curtailed to reduce inventory to meet slowing market demands. Tools segment 2008 operating earnings decreased 14% to $81.1 million compared to $94.0 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 10.6% for 2008 compared to 11.8% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. 24 Table of Contents 2007 vs. 2006 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $942.2 million in 2007 compared to $788.8 million in 2006. Electrical Products segment 2007 operating earnings increased 21% to $848.2 million from $703.2 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 16.6% for 2007 compared to 15.9% for 2006. The increase was primarily due to leverage on fixed costs due to higher sales volumes and continued execution on productivity initiatives and lean manufacturing programs. Tools segment 2007 operating earnings increased 10% to $94.0 million compared to $85.6 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 11.8% compared to 11.3% in 2006. The modest core growth in sales volume was further leveraged through focus on productivity activities and cost reductions. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges In 2008, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $43.3 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million. The 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $52.4 million, or $38.3 million after taxes, reduced 2008 diluted earnings per share by $.21. In the second quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded a restructuring charge for $7.6 million in severance costs for downsizing a Tools segment international facility. This facility downsizing and related cash payments have been substantially completed in 2008. As a result of the downturn in economic conditions in the latter half of 2008, Cooper committed to employment reductions to appropriately size the Companys workforce to current and anticipated market conditions and to downsize a domestic Tools segment manufacturing operation. These actions were taken as a part of Cooper managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded a $35.7 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to these actions, $25.5 million of which relates to the Electrical Products segment and $10.2 million relates to the Tools segment. A total of 1,314 hourly and 930 salary positions are being eliminated as a result of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. Of the 2,244 workforce reductions, 1,358 had exited by the end of 2008 with the remaining reductions expected in the first half of 2009. Cooper estimates that the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions will reduce annual operating costs by approximately $60 million. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had an accrual of $29.7 million for future cash expenditures related to the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions. The related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper also recorded a non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million related to an investment in a previously unconsolidated international joint venture in the Electrical Products segment. In December 2008, Cooper acquired a majority interest in the international joint venture and consolidated the joint ventures net assets of $4.6 million in the accompanying December 31, 2008 balance sheet. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense decreased $16.7 million during 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $98.1 million for 2007. General Corporate expense in 2007 includes $8.8 million for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding the legal and environmental costs for previously disposed businesses, General Corporate expense decreased $8.2 million in 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $89.3 million in 2007 primarily from the impact of lower expense for long term performance based stock compensation. General Corporate expense increased $3.4 million during 2007 to $98.1 million compared to $94.7 million for 2006. General Corporate expense includes $8.8 million and $4.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding these costs, General Corporate expense decreased $0.6 million in 2007 to $89.3 million compared to $89.9 million in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is primarily related to continued cost containment. 25 Table of Contents Income from Belden Agreement Income from the Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007 compared to $5.1 million during 2006. There was no income from the Belden agreement in 2008. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payments are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense for 2008 was $70.4 million, an increase of $19.4 million from 2007 primarily as a result of higher average debt balances from the utilization of debt financing to partially fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Net interest expense also includes $6.0 million and $1.3 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively for reductions in the value of short term investments. Average debt balances were $1.34 billion and $1.05 billion and average interest rates were 5.22% and 5.64% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest expense for 2007 decreased $0.5 million from 2006 as a result of lower average interest rates offsetting higher average debt balances. Average debt balances were $1.05 billion and $1.04 billion and average interest rates were 5.64% and 5.70% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2015. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 5.45% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay outstanding commercial paper. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 23.7% for 2008, 16.2% for 2007 and 25.2% for 2006. Cooper reduced income tax expense by $23.2 million during 2008 for discrete tax items primarily related to statute expirations, state tax settlements and foreign taxes. 2007 included an $83.8 million reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. The 2007 effective tax rate was also lower due to the income from the Belden agreement being taxed in a foreign jurisdiction at a significantly lower rate than the U.S. statutory rate. Excluding the discrete tax items and the income from the Belden agreement, Coopers effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was 26.6% and 27.3%, respectively. Income (Charge) Related to Discontinued Operations In the third quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense (or $.09 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result of not participating in the trust, in the third quarter of 2008, Cooper adjusted its accrual for the Pneumo Abex asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries based on resolution through the tort system. In the second quarter of 2006, Cooper recorded a charge of $20.3 million, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, related to potential asbestos obligations regarding the Automotive Products segment. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 26 Table of Contents Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $3.51 in 2008, $3.73 in 2007 and $2.58 in 2006. The restructuring and asset impairment charges offset by the income tax reduction as discussed above decreased 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.08. The income from the Belden agreement and income tax reduction partially offset by increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years as discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 67.1 % 67.0 % 67.7 % Tools 69.8 % 68.8 % 69.3 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 16.8 % 16.4 % 16.4 % Tools 19.6 % 19.4 % 19.4 % 2008 vs 2007 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.1% for 2008 compared to 67.0% for 2007. The slight increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of material inflation not fully offset through favorable product pricing achieved in the market in certain product lines and the impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 from curtailing production; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 69.8% for 2008 compared to 68.8% for 2007. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve planned inventory reductions to match lower market demands. Electrical Product segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2008 were 16.8% compared to 16.4% for 2007. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue would have been 16.3% for 2008. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2008 were 19.6% compared to 19.4% for 2007, as cost control actions implemented during 2008 which reduced reported selling and administrative expenses by 3% and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation were more than offset by the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. 2007 vs 2006 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.0% for 2007 compared to 67.7% for 2006. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of productivity initiatives and production leverage on higher volume, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.8% for 2007 compared to 69.3% for 2006. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects operating efficiency gains from productivity improvements and cost reductions and the lower level of sales of large low margin assembly systems projects. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 16.4% compared to 16.4% for 2006. The selling and administrative expenses percentage is unchanged, but was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives, offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations and continued investment in global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 19.4% compared to 19.4% for 2006, as productivity initiatives were offset by inflation. 27 Table of Contents Cooper realizes certain costs and proceeds that are not directly attributable to the operating segments. These items are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2009 based on current expectations. Cooper expects a 9% to 14% decline in revenues for Electrical Products in 2009 from slowing global growth in utility and industrial market demand, weakening demand in the commercial construction markets and continued declines in the U.S. residential markets. Acquisitions completed in 2008 are expected to add less than 1% to Electrical Products revenue. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects revenues to decline in the 18% to 23% range due to the weakness in the global industrial, residential and motor vehicle markets. In response to the expected decline in overall revenue currently forecasted to be in the 10 15% range, Cooper recorded restructuring charges in 2008 which are projected to reduce overall cost by approximately $60 million. Operating earnings are expected to decline, despite these actions, more rapidly than revenues as a result of unfavorable leverage of fixed costs and the impact on pricing from the significant decline in commodity costs in late 2008 as the higher cost of inventory and supply chain costs move through the sales cycle. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.80. Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. It is Coopers judgment that unit volumes in the Electrical Products segment increased in 2008 but unit volumes in the Tools segments decreased in 2008. During 2006, 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation Over the three year period, inflation had a relatively minor impact on Coopers results of operations. However, during 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. During 2006, 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper realized price increases and productivity improvements at least equal to material purchase cost increases. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper hedges selected commodities such as copper and steel through the use of derivatives and supply agreements. The impact of changes to these commodity costs could impact margins for several quarters as a result of this activity. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base have mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital increased $1.5 million during 2008. The increase included a $40.6 million decrease in accounts payable substantially offset by a $37.2 million decrease in receivables and a $1.9 million decrease in inventories. The increase in operating working capital of $80.2 million from completed acquisitions and consolidation of a now majority owned international joint venture was substantially offset by initiatives focused on improved inventory turns and improved accounts receivable performance as measured by days sales outstanding. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2008 of 5.6 turns increased from 5.4 turns in 2007. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2007 of 5.4 turns increased from 5.2 turns in 2006 primarily due to initiatives focused on improved inventory turns. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding deteriorated slightly, although this was due in part to acquisitions closing in December and the increased sales outside of the U.S. where commercial terms are generally longer. Coopers operating working capital increased $78.6 million during 2006. The increase included a $53.6 million increase in receivables and a $68.9 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $43.9 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $6.9 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2006 of 5.2 turns increased from 4.9 turns in 2005 primarily due to initiatives focused on reducing days sales outstanding and improved payables management. Inventory turns remained flat with 2005, as the company maintained focus on improving customer service. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $896.4 million during 2008. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 includes the $141 million payment from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate partially offset by $60 million of voluntary contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as the related tax affect of these items. The cash from operating activities, plus $297.5 million of net proceeds from issuances of debt, $290.1 million of proceeds from cash previously restricted, $65.7 million from redemption of short term investments, and $17.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises, was primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $137.0 million, acquisitions of $297.0 million, dividends of $170.3 million, debt repayments of $397.2 million and share purchases of $517.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $795.3 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $190.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251.3 million, and $68.3 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $115.5 million, acquisitions of $336.1 million, dividends of $154.3 million, share purchases of $343.9 million, and $93.7 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290.1 million to fund a 29 Table of Contents binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that is expected to close in the first quarter of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $601.4 million during 2006. This cash, plus an additional $29.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $89.2 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $85.3 million, acquisitions of $280.4 million, dividends of $137.0 million and share purchases of $264.2 million. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate as provided in the previously approved Plan B settlement. Cooper anticipates that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will average in the range of $20 to $30 million, although amounts will vary as the amount of the actual annual net cash outlay is not reasonably predictable. Historically, Cooper has relied on the commercial paper markets to fund its operations. Although recent distress in the financial markets has not had a significant impact on Coopers financial position or liquidity as of the date of this filing in 2009, management continues to monitor the financial markets and general global economic conditions. If further changes in financial markets or other areas of the economy adversely affect Coopers access to the commercial paper markets, Cooper would expect to rely on available cash to provide short term funding. Coopers financial position and liquidity remained strong through the end of 2008 as the global economic slowdown continued to deepen. It is likely that most markets that Cooper services will experience declines over the next twelve months. While the length and depth of the recession are not predictable, Cooper is proactively adjusting our cost structure. In this regard, in the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper implemented contingency plans to reduce our cost structure and recognized a restructuring charge of $35.7 million primarily related to reductions in our workforce in excess of 2,200 employees. Cooper anticipates that the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities related to reductions in the workforce, contract terminations, and other exit costs and the related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2009. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had a $29.7 million accrual related to these activities. Cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 is reduced by the amounts expended on the accruals established in connection with the restructuring actions. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The deterioration in the securities markets in 2008 impacted the value of the assets included in Coopers defined benefit pension plans (Plans). In December 2008, Cooper made voluntary cash contributions of $60 million to the Plans. The decline in fair value of the Plans, as partially offset by the cash contributions and the actuarial change in the benefit obligations has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 based on the provisions of SFAS No. 158. The decline in fair value of the Plans assets and other actuarial changes will result in an increase to total pension costs for 2009 of approximately $18.5 million as compared to total pension costs in 2008. During 2009, Cooper expects to pay in cash approximately $7.4 million for payment of unfunded pension plan benefits and make approximately $2.5 million in employer contributions to certain international funded defined benefit pension plans. Cooper does not expect to have any minimum regulatory funding requirement for its domestic funded defined benefit pension plans in 2009. Cooper has $275 million of long term debt that matures in November 2009. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $500 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment, dividends and common stock repurchases in 2009. 30 Table of Contents Debt At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $258.8 million and $232.8 million, respectively and short term investments of $21.9 million and $93.7 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had short term debt of $25.6 million and $256.1 million, respectively, including commercial paper of $228.7 million at December 31, 2007. Cooper had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008. Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt with a combination of cash, cash equivalents, and committed credit facilities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had $522 million of committed credit facilities, $22 million of which matures in March 2009 and $500 million of which matures in November 2009. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash or short term investments, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facilities. The credit facility agreements are not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreements limit Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and require Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreements. Cooper is currently negotiating to renew its $500 million committed credit facility that matures in November 2009 and anticipates that it will have a new facility in place in the first half of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that a new facility will be negotiated in that time, or at all, and it is likely that the terms of a new facility will not be as attractive as in the existing facility that expires in November 2009. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash and its committed credit facilities to provide short term funding. The committed credit facilities do not contain any provision that make their availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. The distress in the financial markets since September 2008 could result in the commercial paper markets not being conducive to the issuance of commercial paper or, if issued, the commercial paper may not be at reasonably attractive interest rates. See further discussion above under Cash Flows. On November 8, 2005, Cooper US, Inc., a subsidiary of Cooper, issued $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Payment of the notes is guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its subsidiaries. Proceeds of the notes were swapped with cross currency interest rate swaps to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75 %. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2015. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 5.45% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay outstanding commercial paper. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. 31 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $107.9 million and $99.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Eighty percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2008 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due Four to After Less than One to Five Five Total One Year Three Years Years Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 1,207.5 $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ 324.3 $ 605.9 Short Term Debt 25.6 25.6 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt 354.8 67.2 103.5 86.4 97.7 Noncancellable Operating Leases 124.1 32.0 47.1 21.0 24.0 Purchase Obligations 350.8 347.9 2.9 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 289.0 20.3 39.1 37.8 191.8 $ 2,351.8 $ 768.0 $ 194.9 $ 469.5 $ 919.4 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded defined benefit pension plan liabilities, other postemployment benefit liabilities and environmental liabilities. Also includes liabilities for underfunded U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $34.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Capitalization On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2008, 3,029,435 shares remained available to purchase under the authorization. On February 9, 2009, Coopers Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time during 2009. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to fund acquisitions or to purchase shares of Cooper common stock. At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 32.1%, 30.8% and 28.9%, respectively. 32 Table of Contents On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 14, 2007, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Cooper common stock and increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.10 cents per share to $.84 per share. The record date for the stock split was February 28, 2007 and the distribution date was March 15, 2007. All share and per share information presented in this Form 10 K has been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of the stock split. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $137 million in 2008, $116 million in 2007, and $85 million in 2006. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $110 to $120 million in 2009. Projected expenditures for 2009 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products and cost reduction programs. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 33 Table of Contents Interest Rate, Currency and Commodity Price Risk Changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2008 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates in effect during the periods presented. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 $ 1,202.3 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.6 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2007 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 100.1 $ 275.2 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 300.3 $ 1,002.9 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 5.7 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. 34 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2008. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in 2009 2010 2011 Mature in 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 111.5 $ 48.4 $ 328.8 Average contract rate 1.648 1.921 1.909 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 11.9 $ 23.5 $ 159.0 Average contract rate 1.894 1.864 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 148.9 Average contract rate 1.286 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 49.8 Average contract rate 1.209 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 44.7 Average contract rate .079 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.5 Average contract rate .675 Australian Dollar Functional Currency Buy Australian Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.5 Average contract rate 1.122 Changes in availability and fluctuations in commodity prices for raw materials such as steel, copper, aluminum and zinc affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. Cooper primarily manages this exposure through price changes; however, in periods of significant increases in commodity prices, the price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lag the increased costs. Cooper also uses commodity swaps to reduce the volatility of price fluctuations on a portion of certain forecasted material purchases for copper, aluminum and zinc for periods up to eighteen months. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $68 million, 90% of which mature in 2009. At December 31, 2007, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $57 million, all of which matured in 2008. 35 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts related to funding of the MTL tender offer were excluded due to the very short terms of those contracts. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in Mature in 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.3 $ 25.1 $ 182.2 Average contract rate 2.021 1.990 1.972 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 91.5 Average contract rate 1.030 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 88.8 Average contract rate 1.440 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 26.5 Average contract rate .0884 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 18.5 Average contract rate 1.467 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 10.7 Average contract rate 1.408 Great Britain Pound Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 14.5 Average contract rate 2.007 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 10.6 Average contract rate 1.998 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns and other allowances was $89.8 million and $95.1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $77.0 million at December 31, 2008 and $77.9 million at December 31, 2007. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. Total net periodic pension benefit cost was $7.6 million in 2008, $3.9 million in 2007 and $31.0 million in 2006. During 2006, Cooper announced that effective January 1, 2007, future benefit accruals would cease under the Cooper U.S. Salaried Pension Plan. Cooper recognized a $4.2 million curtailment loss in 2006 as a result of this action. During 2006, Cooper also recognized a $4.1 million settlement loss primarily in connection with the retirement of senior executives. Total net periodic pension benefit cost declined in 2007 primarily due to the elimination of service cost on the salaried pension plan and non recurrence of the 2006 losses discussed above. Total net periodic pension benefit cost in 2008 includes a $3.7 million curtailment loss as a result of ceasing future benefit accruals for two defined benefit plans in the U.K. Beginning in 2007, Cooper contributed cash equal to 3% of compensation to the Cooper Retirement Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (CO SAV). Cooper further increased the company matching contribution under the CO SAV plan to a dollar for dollar match up to 6% of employee contributions. The estimated net periodic pension benefit cost of $26.1 million for 2009 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 6.25% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic 19 Table of Contents postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.7 million in 2008 and 2007. Cooper announced the elimination of postretirement life insurance for active employees effective January 1, 2007. As a result, Cooper recognized a $3.2 million curtailment gain in the second quarter of 2006. Excluding the curtailment gain, net periodic postretirement benefit cost was $0.8 million in 2006. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately ($0.4) million in 2009, assuming a discount rate of 6.25%. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards is estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted is measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. During 2006, 2007 and through the third quarter of 2008, performance goals were assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper revised its assumption to lower the performance goals assumed to be achieved to below the maximum level for performance awards granted in 2007 and 2008. The revised achievement levels assumed for the 2007 and 2008 performance award grants considers the past performance and current expectations of future performance in the respective three year performance period. As a result of lowering the performance goals assumed to be achieved, Cooper adjusted previously recognized stock based compensation expense by reducing expense in the fourth quarter of 2008 by $11.3 million. Total stock based compensation expense was $23.1 million in 2008, $39.0 million in 2007 and $29.1 million in 2006. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $29.4 million at December 31, 2008 and $30.2 million at December 31, 2007. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 20 Table of Contents Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. The resolution of tax audits and litigation could have a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized. In 2008 and 2007, Cooper reduced income tax expense by $23.2 million ($.13 per share) and $83.8 million ($.45 per share), respectively, as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, favorable audit settlements and other matters. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records goodwill related to business acquisitions when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Cooper designated January 1 as the date of its annual goodwill impairment test. If an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, an interim impairment test would be performed between annual tests. The first step of the SFAS No. 142 two step goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily by estimating the present value of future cash flows. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed. The second step compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to the carrying amount of the goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss. The results of step one of the goodwill impairment tests did not require the completion of step two of the test for any reporting unit in 2008. Cooper has designated eight reporting units, consisting of seven units in the Electrical Products reportable operating segment plus the Tools reportable operating segment. There are inherent uncertainties and management judgment in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. If actual fair value is less than Coopers estimates, Cooper could be required to record an impairment to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value. Cooper had goodwill of $2.57 billion and $2.54 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further in Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and will continue to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. 21 Table of Contents As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper estimates that the liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $815.1 million. The amount included for unpaid indemnity and defense costs is not significant at December 31, 2008. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. However, a discounted value would likely be approximately 60% or less of the $815.1 million liability recorded. The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, there can be no assurance that these studies, or other assumptions, will not vary significantly from the estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believed were reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $735 to $950 million (undiscounted). Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2008, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $750 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2008, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $192.3 million, of which $74.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $192.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2008 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies 22 Table of Contents include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper will record a charge or income related to the discontinued operations asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 5,755.7 $ 5,108.4 $ 4,426.0 Tools 765.6 794.7 758.6 Total Revenues $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues Revenues for 2008 increased approximately 11% compared to 2007. The impact of currency translation was less than 1%, while acquisitions added approximately 7% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2008, which represent slightly more than 88% of revenues, increased approximately 13% compared to 2007. Currency translation had a minimal impact on revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2008 by nearly 8% over 2007 revenue levels. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses reported increased revenues for 2008. Revenue growth was a result of solid demand from energy, industrial, international expansion and nonresidential construction markets through the first nine months of 2008. Softness in the U.S residential market throughout the year and declines in all global markets during the fourth quarter of the year partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2008, which represent about 12% of revenues, decreased approximately 4% compared to 2007. Currency translation represented a 2% increase for reported revenues with limited increase from acquisitions. Revenue declines were driven by weak retail markets and soft demand from the motor vehicle end markets. Tools segment experienced significant weakness in most markets and geographies during the fourth quarter of 2008, particularly in the U.S. retail channel. 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues Revenues for 2007 increased 14% compared to 2006. The impact of currency translation was 2%, while acquisitions added approximately 4% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2007, which represented 87% of revenues, increased approximately 15% compared to 2006. Currency translation represented 2% of the revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased segment revenues by approximately 4%. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses posted revenue growth during 2007. Sales growth was a result of strong demand from the utility and industrial markets, international expansion and solid demand from U.S. nonresidential construction. Ongoing softness in the U.S. residential markets partially offset these increases. 23 Table of Contents Tools segment revenues for 2007, which represented 13% of revenues, increased approximately 5% compared to 2006, with currency translation representing 3% of the increase. Sales increases were driven by solid demand from aerospace, partially offset by soft demand in the motor vehicle end markets. Retail sales compared to 2006 were down slightly in a challenging U.S. market. Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 930.3 $ 848.2 $ 703.2 Tools 81.1 94.0 85.6 Restructuring and asset impairment charges (52.4 ) Total segment operating earnings 959.0 942.2 788.8 General corporate expense 81.4 98.1 94.7 Operating earnings 877.6 844.1 694.1 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 5.1 Interest expense, net 70.4 51.0 51.5 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 807.2 826.2 647.7 Income tax expense 191.6 133.9 163.4 Income from continuing operations 615.6 692.3 484.3 Income (charge) from discontinued operations 16.6 (20.3 ) Net income $ 632.2 $ 692.3 $ 464.0 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 3.51 $ 3.73 $ 2.58 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .09 (.11 ) Net income $ 3.60 $ 3.73 $ 2.47 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2008 vs. 2007 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $959.0 million in 2008 compared to $942.2 million in 2007. Electrical Products segment 2008 operating earnings increased 10% to $930.3 million from $848.2 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 16.2% for 2008 compared to 16.6% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions and in the second half of the year inflationary costs for commodities not fully offset by available market price increases in certain product lines. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2008, production volumes were curtailed to reduce inventory to meet slowing market demands. Tools segment 2008 operating earnings decreased 14% to $81.1 million compared to $94.0 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 10.6% for 2008 compared to 11.8% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. 24 Table of Contents 2007 vs. 2006 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $942.2 million in 2007 compared to $788.8 million in 2006. Electrical Products segment 2007 operating earnings increased 21% to $848.2 million from $703.2 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 16.6% for 2007 compared to 15.9% for 2006. The increase was primarily due to leverage on fixed costs due to higher sales volumes and continued execution on productivity initiatives and lean manufacturing programs. Tools segment 2007 operating earnings increased 10% to $94.0 million compared to $85.6 million for 2006. Return on revenues was 11.8% compared to 11.3% in 2006. The modest core growth in sales volume was further leveraged through focus on productivity activities and cost reductions. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges In 2008, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $43.3 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million. The 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $52.4 million, or $38.3 million after taxes, reduced 2008 diluted earnings per share by $.21. In the second quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded a restructuring charge for $7.6 million in severance costs for downsizing a Tools segment international facility. This facility downsizing and related cash payments have been substantially completed in 2008. As a result of the downturn in economic conditions in the latter half of 2008, Cooper committed to employment reductions to appropriately size the Companys workforce to current and anticipated market conditions and to downsize a domestic Tools segment manufacturing operation. These actions were taken as a part of Cooper managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded a $35.7 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to these actions, $25.5 million of which relates to the Electrical Products segment and $10.2 million relates to the Tools segment. A total of 1,314 hourly and 930 salary positions are being eliminated as a result of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. Of the 2,244 workforce reductions, 1,358 had exited by the end of 2008 with the remaining reductions expected in the first half of 2009. Cooper estimates that the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions will reduce annual operating costs by approximately $60 million. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had an accrual of $29.7 million for future cash expenditures related to the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions. The related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper also recorded a non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million related to an investment in a previously unconsolidated international joint venture in the Electrical Products segment. In December 2008, Cooper acquired a majority interest in the international joint venture and consolidated the joint ventures net assets of $4.6 million in the accompanying December 31, 2008 balance sheet. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense decreased $16.7 million during 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $98.1 million for 2007. General Corporate expense in 2007 includes $8.8 million for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding the legal and environmental costs for previously disposed businesses, General Corporate expense decreased $8.2 million in 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $89.3 million in 2007 primarily from the impact of lower expense for long term performance based stock compensation. General Corporate expense increased $3.4 million during 2007 to $98.1 million compared to $94.7 million for 2006. General Corporate expense includes $8.8 million and $4.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding these costs, General Corporate expense decreased $0.6 million in 2007 to $89.3 million compared to $89.9 million in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is primarily related to continued cost containment. 25 Table of Contents Income from Belden Agreement Income from the Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007 compared to $5.1 million during 2006. There was no income from the Belden agreement in 2008. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payments are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense for 2008 was $70.4 million, an increase of $19.4 million from 2007 primarily as a result of higher average debt balances from the utilization of debt financing to partially fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Net interest expense also includes $6.0 million and $1.3 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively for reductions in the value of short term investments. Average debt balances were $1.34 billion and $1.05 billion and average interest rates were 5.22% and 5.64% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest expense for 2007 decreased $0.5 million from 2006 as a result of lower average interest rates offsetting higher average debt balances. Average debt balances were $1.05 billion and $1.04 billion and average interest rates were 5.64% and 5.70% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2015. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 5.45% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay outstanding commercial paper. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 23.7% for 2008, 16.2% for 2007 and 25.2% for 2006. Cooper reduced income tax expense by $23.2 million during 2008 for discrete tax items primarily related to statute expirations, state tax settlements and foreign taxes. 2007 included an $83.8 million reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. The 2007 effective tax rate was also lower due to the income from the Belden agreement being taxed in a foreign jurisdiction at a significantly lower rate than the U.S. statutory rate. Excluding the discrete tax items and the income from the Belden agreement, Coopers effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was 26.6% and 27.3%, respectively. Income (Charge) Related to Discontinued Operations In the third quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense (or $.09 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result of not participating in the trust, in the third quarter of 2008, Cooper adjusted its accrual for the Pneumo Abex asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries based on resolution through the tort system. In the second quarter of 2006, Cooper recorded a charge of $20.3 million, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, related to potential asbestos obligations regarding the Automotive Products segment. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 26 Table of Contents Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $3.51 in 2008, $3.73 in 2007 and $2.58 in 2006. The restructuring and asset impairment charges offset by the income tax reduction as discussed above decreased 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.08. The income from the Belden agreement and income tax reduction partially offset by increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years as discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 67.1 % 67.0 % 67.7 % Tools 69.8 % 68.8 % 69.3 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 16.8 % 16.4 % 16.4 % Tools 19.6 % 19.4 % 19.4 % 2008 vs 2007 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.1% for 2008 compared to 67.0% for 2007. The slight increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of material inflation not fully offset through favorable product pricing achieved in the market in certain product lines and the impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 from curtailing production; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 69.8% for 2008 compared to 68.8% for 2007. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve planned inventory reductions to match lower market demands. Electrical Product segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2008 were 16.8% compared to 16.4% for 2007. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue would have been 16.3% for 2008. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2008 were 19.6% compared to 19.4% for 2007, as cost control actions implemented during 2008 which reduced reported selling and administrative expenses by 3% and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation were more than offset by the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. 2007 vs 2006 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.0% for 2007 compared to 67.7% for 2006. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage was primarily the result of productivity initiatives and production leverage on higher volume, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.8% for 2007 compared to 69.3% for 2006. The decrease in cost of sales percentage reflects operating efficiency gains from productivity improvements and cost reductions and the lower level of sales of large low margin assembly systems projects. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 16.4% compared to 16.4% for 2006. The selling and administrative expenses percentage is unchanged, but was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives, offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations and continued investment in global growth initiatives. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2007 were 19.4% compared to 19.4% for 2006, as productivity initiatives were offset by inflation. 27 Table of Contents Cooper realizes certain costs and proceeds that are not directly attributable to the operating segments. These items are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2009 based on current expectations. Cooper expects a 9% to 14% decline in revenues for Electrical Products in 2009 from slowing global growth in utility and industrial market demand, weakening demand in the commercial construction markets and continued declines in the U.S. residential markets. Acquisitions completed in 2008 are expected to add less than 1% to Electrical Products revenue. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects revenues to decline in the 18% to 23% range due to the weakness in the global industrial, residential and motor vehicle markets. In response to the expected decline in overall revenue currently forecasted to be in the 10 15% range, Cooper recorded restructuring charges in 2008 which are projected to reduce overall cost by approximately $60 million. Operating earnings are expected to decline, despite these actions, more rapidly than revenues as a result of unfavorable leverage of fixed costs and the impact on pricing from the significant decline in commodity costs in late 2008 as the higher cost of inventory and supply chain costs move through the sales cycle. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.80. Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. It is Coopers judgment that unit volumes in the Electrical Products segment increased in 2008 but unit volumes in the Tools segments decreased in 2008. During 2006, 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation Over the three year period, inflation had a relatively minor impact on Coopers results of operations. However, during 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. During 2006, 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper realized price increases and productivity improvements at least equal to material purchase cost increases. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper hedges selected commodities such as copper and steel through the use of derivatives and supply agreements. The impact of changes to these commodity costs could impact margins for several quarters as a result of this activity. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base have mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital increased $1.5 million during 2008. The increase included a $40.6 million decrease in accounts payable substantially offset by a $37.2 million decrease in receivables and a $1.9 million decrease in inventories. The increase in operating working capital of $80.2 million from completed acquisitions and consolidation of a now majority owned international joint venture was substantially offset by initiatives focused on improved inventory turns and improved accounts receivable performance as measured by days sales outstanding. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2008 of 5.6 turns increased from 5.4 turns in 2007. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2007 of 5.4 turns increased from 5.2 turns in 2006 primarily due to initiatives focused on improved inventory turns. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding deteriorated slightly, although this was due in part to acquisitions closing in December and the increased sales outside of the U.S. where commercial terms are generally longer. Coopers operating working capital increased $78.6 million during 2006. The increase included a $53.6 million increase in receivables and a $68.9 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $43.9 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $6.9 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Operating working capital turnover (defined as annualized revenues divided by average operating working capital) for 2006 of 5.2 turns increased from 4.9 turns in 2005 primarily due to initiatives focused on reducing days sales outstanding and improved payables management. Inventory turns remained flat with 2005, as the company maintained focus on improving customer service. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $896.4 million during 2008. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 includes the $141 million payment from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate partially offset by $60 million of voluntary contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as the related tax affect of these items. The cash from operating activities, plus $297.5 million of net proceeds from issuances of debt, $290.1 million of proceeds from cash previously restricted, $65.7 million from redemption of short term investments, and $17.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises, was primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $137.0 million, acquisitions of $297.0 million, dividends of $170.3 million, debt repayments of $397.2 million and share purchases of $517.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $795.3 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $190.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251.3 million, and $68.3 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $115.5 million, acquisitions of $336.1 million, dividends of $154.3 million, share purchases of $343.9 million, and $93.7 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290.1 million to fund a 29 Table of Contents binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that is expected to close in the first quarter of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $601.4 million during 2006. This cash, plus an additional $29.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $89.2 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $85.3 million, acquisitions of $280.4 million, dividends of $137.0 million and share purchases of $264.2 million. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate as provided in the previously approved Plan B settlement. Cooper anticipates that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will average in the range of $20 to $30 million, although amounts will vary as the amount of the actual annual net cash outlay is not reasonably predictable. Historically, Cooper has relied on the commercial paper markets to fund its operations. Although recent distress in the financial markets has not had a significant impact on Coopers financial position or liquidity as of the date of this filing in 2009, management continues to monitor the financial markets and general global economic conditions. If further changes in financial markets or other areas of the economy adversely affect Coopers access to the commercial paper markets, Cooper would expect to rely on available cash to provide short term funding. Coopers financial position and liquidity remained strong through the end of 2008 as the global economic slowdown continued to deepen. It is likely that most markets that Cooper services will experience declines over the next twelve months. While the length and depth of the recession are not predictable, Cooper is proactively adjusting our cost structure. In this regard, in the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper implemented contingency plans to reduce our cost structure and recognized a restructuring charge of $35.7 million primarily related to reductions in our workforce in excess of 2,200 employees. Cooper anticipates that the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities related to reductions in the workforce, contract terminations, and other exit costs and the related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2009. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had a $29.7 million accrual related to these activities. Cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 is reduced by the amounts expended on the accruals established in connection with the restructuring actions. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The deterioration in the securities markets in 2008 impacted the value of the assets included in Coopers defined benefit pension plans (Plans). In December 2008, Cooper made voluntary cash contributions of $60 million to the Plans. The decline in fair value of the Plans, as partially offset by the cash contributions and the actuarial change in the benefit obligations has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 based on the provisions of SFAS No. 158. The decline in fair value of the Plans assets and other actuarial changes will result in an increase to total pension costs for 2009 of approximately $18.5 million as compared to total pension costs in 2008. During 2009, Cooper expects to pay in cash approximately $7.4 million for payment of unfunded pension plan benefits and make approximately $2.5 million in employer contributions to certain international funded defined benefit pension plans. Cooper does not expect to have any minimum regulatory funding requirement for its domestic funded defined benefit pension plans in 2009. Cooper has $275 million of long term debt that matures in November 2009. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $500 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment, dividends and common stock repurchases in 2009. 30 Table of Contents Debt At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $258.8 million and $232.8 million, respectively and short term investments of $21.9 million and $93.7 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had short term debt of $25.6 million and $256.1 million, respectively, including commercial paper of $228.7 million at December 31, 2007. Cooper had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008. Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt with a combination of cash, cash equivalents, and committed credit facilities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Cooper had $522 million of committed credit facilities, $22 million of which matures in March 2009 and $500 million of which matures in November 2009. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash or short term investments, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facilities. The credit facility agreements are not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreements limit Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and require Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreements. Cooper is currently negotiating to renew its $500 million committed credit facility that matures in November 2009 and anticipates that it will have a new facility in place in the first half of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that a new facility will be negotiated in that time, or at all, and it is likely that the terms of a new facility will not be as attractive as in the existing facility that expires in November 2009. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash and its committed credit facilities to provide short term funding. The committed credit facilities do not contain any provision that make their availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. The distress in the financial markets since September 2008 could result in the commercial paper markets not being conducive to the issuance of commercial paper or, if issued, the commercial paper may not be at reasonably attractive interest rates. See further discussion above under Cash Flows. On November 8, 2005, Cooper US, Inc., a subsidiary of Cooper, issued $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Payment of the notes is guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its subsidiaries. Proceeds of the notes were swapped with cross currency interest rate swaps to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Coopers $300 million, 5.25% senior unsecured notes, which were issued in June 2002, matured in July 2007. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2017. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 6.10% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay the maturing 5.25% notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the 6.10% notes will have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75 %. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2015. The fixed rate notes have an interest coupon of 5.45% and are guaranteed by Cooper and certain of its principal operating subsidiaries. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay outstanding commercial paper. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. 31 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $107.9 million and $99.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Eighty percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2008 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due Four to After Less than One to Five Five Total One Year Three Years Years Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 1,207.5 $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ 324.3 $ 605.9 Short Term Debt 25.6 25.6 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt 354.8 67.2 103.5 86.4 97.7 Noncancellable Operating Leases 124.1 32.0 47.1 21.0 24.0 Purchase Obligations 350.8 347.9 2.9 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 289.0 20.3 39.1 37.8 191.8 $ 2,351.8 $ 768.0 $ 194.9 $ 469.5 $ 919.4 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded defined benefit pension plan liabilities, other postemployment benefit liabilities and environmental liabilities. Also includes liabilities for underfunded U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $34.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Capitalization On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2008, 3,029,435 shares remained available to purchase under the authorization. On February 9, 2009, Coopers Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time during 2009. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to fund acquisitions or to purchase shares of Cooper common stock. At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 32.1%, 30.8% and 28.9%, respectively. 32 Table of Contents On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 14, 2007, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Cooper common stock and increased the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.10 cents per share to $.84 per share. The record date for the stock split was February 28, 2007 and the distribution date was March 15, 2007. All share and per share information presented in this Form 10 K has been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of the stock split. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $137 million in 2008, $116 million in 2007, and $85 million in 2006. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $110 to $120 million in 2009. Projected expenditures for 2009 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products and cost reduction programs. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 33 Table of Contents Interest Rate, Currency and Commodity Price Risk Changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2008 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates in effect during the periods presented. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 $ 1,202.3 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.6 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2007 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 100.1 $ 275.2 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ 300.3 $ 1,002.9 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 5.7 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to Euro 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. 34 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2008. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in 2009 2010 2011 Mature in 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 111.5 $ 48.4 $ 328.8 Average contract rate 1.648 1.921 1.909 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 11.9 $ 23.5 $ 159.0 Average contract rate 1.894 1.864 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 148.9 Average contract rate 1.286 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 49.8 Average contract rate 1.209 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 44.7 Average contract rate .079 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.5 Average contract rate .675 Australian Dollar Functional Currency Buy Australian Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.5 Average contract rate 1.122 Changes in availability and fluctuations in commodity prices for raw materials such as steel, copper, aluminum and zinc affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. Cooper primarily manages this exposure through price changes; however, in periods of significant increases in commodity prices, the price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lag the increased costs. Cooper also uses commodity swaps to reduce the volatility of price fluctuations on a portion of certain forecasted material purchases for copper, aluminum and zinc for periods up to eighteen months. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $68 million, 90% of which mature in 2009. At December 31, 2007, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $57 million, all of which matured in 2008. 35 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts related to funding of the MTL tender offer were excluded due to the very short terms of those contracts. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in Mature in 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.3 $ 25.1 $ 182.2 Average contract rate 2.021 1.990 1.972 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 91.5 Average contract rate 1.030 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 88.8 Average contract rate 1.440 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 26.5 Average contract rate .0884 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 18.5 Average contract rate 1.467 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 10.7 Average contract rate 1.408 Great Britain Pound Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 14.5 Average contract rate 2.007 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 10.6 Average contract rate 1.998 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
