Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Electrical Products The Electrical Products segment manufactures, markets and sells electrical and circuit protection products, including fittings, support systems, enclosures, specialty connectors, wiring devices, plugs, receptacles, lighting fixtures and controls, hazardous duty electrical equipment, intrinsically safe explosion proof instrumentation, fuses, emergency lighting, fire detection and mass notification systems and security products for use in residential, commercial and industrial construction, maintenance and repair applications. The segment also manufactures markets and sells products for use by utilities and in industry for electrical power transmission and distribution, including distribution switchgear, transformers, transformer terminations and accessories, capacitors, voltage regulators, surge arresters, energy automation solutions and other related power systems components. The principal raw material requirements include: steel, copper, aluminum, aluminum ingots, brass, tin, lead, plastics, electronic components and insulating materials including transformer oil. These raw materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. 4 Table of Contents Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. The segments product lines are marketed directly to original equipment manufacturers and utilities and to a variety of end users through major distributor chains, retail home centers, hardware outlets and thousands of independent distributors. Tools The Tools segment manufactures markets and sells hand tools for industrial, construction, electronics and consumer markets; automated assembly systems for industrial markets; and electric and pneumatic industrial power tools, related electronics and software control and monitoring systems for general industry, primarily automotive and aerospace manufacturers. The principal raw material requirements include: flat and bar stock steel, brass, copper, fiberglass, aluminum, metal castings and forgings, wood, plastic pellets and plastic sheet. These materials are available from and supplied by numerous sources located in the United States and other countries. Demand for nonpowered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools are driven by employment levels and industrial activity in major industrial countries and by consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production and general industrial production. The segments products are sold by the companys sales force, independent distributors and retailers. 5 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT Electrical Products Major Products and Brands Access Cabinets electrical enclosures Ametrix architectural asymmetric lighting Antares dimming lighting controls Arktite and eXLink plugs and receptacles Arrow Hart commercial and industrial wiring devices and power connection products ArrowLink modular wiring devices Aspire and Siena decorative wiring devices Aspire RF radio frequency controls, switches and receptacles AtLite commercial, exit and emergency lighting AutoGrip commercial grade plugs and connectors Axent architectural lighting Blessing emergency lighting systems B Line support systems, enclosures, fasteners Burton undersea connectors Bussmann and Buss electrical and electronic fuses, fuse holders, and accessories Buzznut labor saving fasteners Cam Lok electrical power connectors Cannon Technologies automated distribution solutions Capri cable accessories and flexible conduits CEAG emergency lighting systems and explosion protected electrical materials CEAG emergency lighting systems and explosion protected electrical materials Cent R Rail and Redi Rail metal rack units and cable trays Cent R Rail cable tray system Champ and Hazard Gard HID and fluorescent lighting Chico conduit sealing compound Coiltronics inductors and transformers for the electronics industry Condulet fittings and outlet bodies Cooper Interconnect specialty connectors and cables Cooper Wiring Devices residential, commercial and industrial wiring devices and power connection products CORE Controls dimmers, occupancy sensors, RF and integrated control systems Corelite indirect/direct linear recessed lighting Crompton lighting fixtures Crouse Hinds and CEAG electrical construction materials and aviation lighting products CSA security systems and fire detection systems CUBEFuse fuse and fuse holder system Cybectec substation integration and automation solutions CYME International Power Engineering Software Domex and Domex Ground electrical construction materials and ground systems Domex Bond Rojo coated conduit system (total protection against corrosion) Dura Blok rooftop supports Dura Clean washdown support systems Dura Cooper and Dura Green epoxy coatings E2 and EC2 electronic enclosures Edison electrical and electronic fuses, fuse holders and accessories Edison relays and fusegear ELLK 92 explosion protected fluorescent light fixture Enviroshield and Premier electrical enclosure Envirotemp FR3 fire resistant, dielectric fluid Envirotran liquid filled transformers Exactra panel boards EX Cell and NexT industrial enclosures F.A.S.T. underfloor cable tray system Fail Safe confinement, vandal resistant, clean room and medical lighting Flex Station panel boards Flextray wire mesh cable tray Fulleon and Nugelec fire detection systems Fusetron, Limitron, Low Peak and Xian electrical fuses GH Technology specialty connectors General Connectors military connectors Grate Lock interlocking grating system Greengate energy management lighting controls Grip Strut safety grating Halo recessed downlighting, track and surface lighting Hart Lock and Power Lock locking devices Hart Lock electrical receptacles, caps, connectors and accessories Hyundai explosion proof electrical products iLight architectural lighting controls (International) iLumin architectural lighting controls (North America) InVision overcurrent protective device monitoring system for industry Invue outdoor architectural area /site, decorative and floodlighting io architectural LED lighting Iris architectural residential recessed downlighting JSB and Menvier emergency lighting and fire detection systems Kearney connectors, switches, fuses and cutouts Kwik Clip pipe and conduit supports Kwik Wire cable support systems Kyle distribution switchgear Lumark indoor and outdoor industrial, area /site, security and floodlighting Lumire architectural landscape lighting Luminox emergency lighting LynxPower industrial connectivity MagneX interrupting devices Magnum power distribution blocks and power terminal blocks McGraw Edison outdoor architectural area /site, garage and floodlighting McGraw Edison transformer components, cable accessories and fuses MEDC signals and alarms MediaSync multi media wiring systems Metalux commercial and industrial fluorescent lighting M Force switches Mini Line miniature over molded connectors cord sets MTL intrinsically safe interfacing products and instrumentation MTL Surge Technologies and Atlantic Scientific surge protection equipment MWS modular wiring systems Myers electrical hubs Neo Ray architectural indirect/direct linear, recessed and surface lighting Nortem electrical construction materials NOVA reclosers, sectionalizers and switches OMNEX wireless signal technology and products Optima fuse holder PDS commercial recessed downlighting Perf O Grip plank metal grating PolySurg polymer based ESD suppression devices for the electronics industry Portfolio architectural commercial recessed downlighting Posi Break electrical connectors Posi Lok electrical connector panel units Power Lock wiring devices, receptacles, caps and covers PowerPlus panel boards PowerStor supercapacitors for the electronics industry Pretronica and Univel emergency lighting and power systems Quick Grip OEM plugs and connectors Quik Spec electrical gear RCM rack cable management systems Redi Rail cable tray system Regent consumer security lighting REPEL protected switches and wallplates RhinoBox temporary power center Roam Secure personal and regional alerting Roam Secure text messaging/SMS alerting, automated dialing, desktop alerts, and email notification systems Royer commercial and industrial wiring devices and power connection products RSA architectural multi lamp, recessed, track and linear lighting Ruff in prefabricated mounting and support systems Ruff in prefabricated mounting and support systems SAFEPATH voice evacuation systems and accessories Safety Grip industrial grade plugs and connectors SAFETYBasics electrical safety training Scantronic and Menvier security systems Sedna decorative switches and receptacles Shaper indoor and outdoor architectural decorative lighting ShockSentry circuit protection devices Snapn Shield insulated pipe supports SpecOne panel boards Spectra panel boards Stabex explosion protected torch Streetworks outdoor area/roadway lighting Sure Lites exit and emergency lighting SurePower power management and wireless control products for the transportation industry SurgeBloc electrical protection receptacles and surge suppressors Traction Tread perforated panel safety grating UltraSIL and VariSTAR surge arresters VaporGard incandescent clear globe lighting fixtures V Line electronic cabinets WAVES mass notification systems and accessories WeatherBox while in use outdoor boxes and covers Wheelock fire and security notification appliances, devices and signals X Switch NSF certified motor control switch Yukon software platform Zero 88 theatrical lighting controls Tools Major Products and Brands Airetool, Automated Systems, Cleco, DGD, Dotco and Gardner Denver industrial power tools and assembly equipment Apex fastening tools and universal joints Atila screwdrivers Atkins hacksaws Belzer pliers, wrenches, sockets and drivers Buckeye material removal tools and fixed drills Campbell chains, blocks, clamps, and fittings Caulk Master air powered dispensing guns Collins machetes, shovels, and axes Crescent wrenches, pliers, drivers, and tool sets Diamond horseshoes and farrier tools Disston garden tools, saws, pliers, wrenches, and bits Doler and Quackenbush advanced drilling equipment Erem precision cutters and tweezers Filtronic fume extraction equipment Geta fastening tools KF files and rasps Kahnetics dispensing equipment Lufkin measuring tools Master Power industrial air tools Mayle wrenches, pliers, drivers, and tool sets Metromex saws, trowels, and measuring tools Metronix servos, drivers and speed controls Nicholson files, rasps, and saws Onix Plata hacksaws Plumb hammers and hatchets Recoules cutters and drilling tools Rotor Tool fixtured and portable assembly equipment Scala precision measurement tools Utica torque measurement and control tools Weller soldering tools, rework/repair tools, and fume extraction equipment Wire Wrap solderless connection equipment Wiss and H.K. Porter cutting products Xcelite screwdrivers, nutdrivers, pliers, and tool kits * Gardner Denver is a registered trademark of Gardner Denver, Inc. and is used by Cooper Industries under license. 6 Table of Contents COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION METHODS BY SEGMENT (Continued) ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Major Markets Fuses and circuit protection products are utilized in products for the construction, industrial, transportation and consumer markets and by manufacturers in the electrical, electronic, telecommunications and transportation industries. Lighting fixtures are utilized in residential construction, industrial, institutional and commercial building complexes, shopping centers, parking lots, roadways, and sports facilities. Electrical power products are used by utilities and commercial and industrial power users. Electrical construction materials are used in commercial, residential and industrial projects, by utilities, airports and wastewater treatment plants and in the process and energy industries. Emergency lighting, fire detection and security systems are installed in residential, commercial and industrial applications. Support systems and enclosures are used in industrial, commercial and telecommunications complexes. Wiring devices are used in the construction, renovation, maintenance and repair of residential, commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors for use in general construction and renovation, plant maintenance, process and energy applications, shopping centers, parking lots, sports facilities, and data processing and telecommunications systems; through distributors and direct to utilities and manufacturers for use in electronic equipment for consumer, industrial, government and military applications; through distributors and direct to retail home centers and hardware outlets; and direct to original equipment manufacturers of appliances, tools, machinery and electronic equipment. TOOLS Major Markets Power tools and assembly systems are used by general industrial manufacturers, particularly durable goods producers and original equipment manufacturers, such as those in the aerospace and automobile industries. Hand tools are used in a variety of industrial, electronics, agricultural, construction and consumer applications. Principal Distribution Methods Products are sold through distributors and agents to general industry, particularly automotive and aircraft; through distributors and wholesalers to hardware stores, lumberyards and department stores; and direct to original equipment manufacturers, home centers, specialty stores, department stores, mass merchandisers and hardware outlets. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and performance are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Businesses Are Subject to Competitive Pressures. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service, innovation and or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our competitors for certain products have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for Our Products Is Sensitive to the Economic Conditions in the Markets We Serve. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction and renovation markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. Demand for non powered hand tools, assembly systems and industrial power tools is driven by employment levels, industrial activity and consumer spending. In addition, demand for industrial power tools is influenced by automotive and aerospace production. Reduced demand due to economic and market conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Development and Introduction of New Products and Solutions Affect our Ability to Grow Revenues and Improve Profitability. Development and introduction of new products that increase our customers productivity and efficiency, provide enhanced energy efficiency, introduce new technology solutions, enhance safety and conform to electrical standards in regions and local countries contribute significantly to our revenue growth and profitability. We continually invest in new products and solutions and are not dependent upon the success of any one product or solution. However, our overall success depends on continuous new products and solutions being introduced and accepted by our customers. Price Increases or Significant Shortages of Raw Materials and Components Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs and the Competitive Position of Our Products. Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, aluminum, electronic components and plastics and, to a lesser degree brass, tin, lead, fiberglass and insulating materials including transformer oil. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil that Cooper uses in electrical power transmission and distribution products. Significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place requires that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third party suppliers or majority owned 8 Table of Contents joint venture operations in low cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. We believe that our operations in emerging markets such as China and India are subject to greater risks related to these political and economic uncertainties as compared to most countries where Cooper has operations. Our Key Strategic Initiatives Affect Our Ability to Grow Revenues, Control Costs and Improve Productivity. Our operating model is built on a platform of key strategic initiatives that are designed to grow revenues, control costs and improve productivity. Our ability to execute and realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives affects our revenues and operating costs. Also, our operations could be disrupted by manufacturing rationalizations. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses. We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Liability Exposure for Asbestos Related Claims. We have owned businesses that produced and sold products that contained asbestos. We, therefore, have potential liability arising from individuals claiming illnesses from exposure to asbestos. Insurance policies satisfy portions of the claim settlements and related legal costs. Many of the asbestos claims arise from our former Abex Friction Products business that was sold to Federal Mogul Corporation and was subject to Federal Mogul Corporations bankruptcy plan of reorganization. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued a ruling denying the Plan A Settlement, resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement under which Cooper resolves through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that was sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As a result of the Bankruptcy Court ruling, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables rely on various assumptions. The key assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of ongoing negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if the assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. Cooper reviews these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimates of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. Further information regarding Coopers asbestos liability is discussed under Item 3 Legal Proceedings. 9 Table of Contents We Are Subject To Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results. We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, tort, employment claims, intellectual property claims, and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances and other waste materials. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use consultants to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent than in the past and are expected to continue to become more so. Violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Such violations could also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, and other costs and claims. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and related state laws and regulations, liability can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. Risks relating to Coopers Jurisdiction of Incorporation. Legislative and regulatory action could materially adversely affect us. Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely or broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding the reincorporation to Ireland or limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., we could be subjected to increased taxation and or potentially significant expense. The U.S. Federal Government and certain states and municipalities have enacted legislation intended to deny federal funding and government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside the U.S. For instance, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 10 Table of Contents signed into law in December 2009 includes a provision that prohibits government contracts with U.S. companies that have reincorporated outside the United States. We cannot provide any assurance that the impact on us of any adopted or proposed legislation in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. In addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the U.S. but are domiciled in countries that do not have tax treaties with the United States, like Bermuda. We cannot assure you that moving our jurisdiction of incorporation to Ireland in September 2009 will eliminate the risk that we may be subject to similar criticism. We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We believe that the Irish reincorporation should improve our ability to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from this expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland: The judgment must be for a definitive sum; The judgment must be final and conclusive; and The judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. As an Irish company, Cooper Industries plc is governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to shareholder lawsuits. The duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Cooper Industries plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES On December 31, 2009, the plants and other facilities used by Cooper throughout the world contained an aggregate of approximately 20.8 million square feet of space, of which approximately 79 percent was owned and 21 percent was leased. The charts on the next page show the number of employees, square footage of facilities owned and leased and location of manufacturing facilities for each industry segment. 11 Table of Contents Square Footage of Plants and Facilities Number of Number and Nature of Facilities (in millions) Segment Employees Manufacturing Warehouse Sales Other Owned Leased Electrical Products 23,991 105 28 82 4 12.4 4.0 Tools 3,655 23 4 9 4.0 0.3 Other 609 3 0.1 Total 28,255 128 32 91 7 16.4 4.4 * Multi purpose facilities at a single location are listed in each applicable column. Manufacturing Plant Locations Europe United (Other United South Republic Saudi Segment States Than UK) Kingdom Mexico America Australia Canada China of China India Korea Singapore Arabia Electrical Products 49 12 12 10 2 2 3 8 1 3 1 1 1 Tools 10 6 3 2 1 1 Total 59 18 12 13 4 3 3 9 1 3 1 1 1 * Some facilities are shared by Electrical Products and Tools operations. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 1. Legal Proceedings Discontinued Operations Liability In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further below, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying Coopers participation in the proposed Federal Mogul 524(g) trust resulting in implementation of the previously approved Plan B Settlement. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. Based on information provided by representatives of Federal Mogul and recent claims experience, from August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2009, a total of 147,740 Abex Claims were filed, of which 124,911 claims have been resolved leaving 22,829 Abex Claims pending at December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, 1,565 claims were filed and 2,424 claims were resolved. Since August 28, 1998, the average indemnity payment for resolved Abex Claims was $2,106 before insurance. A total of $167.7 million was spent on defense costs for the period August 28, 1998 through December 31, 2009. Existing insurance coverage currently provides approximately 30% recovery of the total defense and indemnity payments for Abex Claims due to exhaustion of primary layers of coverage and litigation with certain excess insurers, although, in certain periods, insurance recoveries can be higher due to new settlements with insurers. 2005 2007 In December 2005, Cooper reached an initial agreement in negotiations with the representatives of Federal Mogul, its bankruptcy committees and the future claimants (the Representatives) regarding Coopers participation in Federal Moguls proposed 524(g) asbestos trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper would have resolved its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to court approval and certain other approvals. Future claims would have been resolved through the bankruptcy trust. Although the final determination of whether Cooper would participate in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust was unknown, Coopers management concluded that, at the date of the filing of its 2005 Form 10 K, the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a settlement approximating the December 2005 proposed settlement. Accordingly, the accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy was $526.3 million at December 31, 2005. The December 31, 2005 discontinued operations accrual included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and included $215 million of insurance recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. Throughout 2006 and 2007, Cooper continued to believe that the most likely outcome in the range of potential outcomes was a revised settlement with Cooper resolving its asbestos obligations through participation in the proposed Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. While the details of the proposed settlement agreement evolved during the on going negotiations throughout 2006 and 2007, the underlying principles of the proposed settlement arrangements being negotiated principally included fixed payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were subject to reduction for insurance proceeds received in the future. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the then current status of settlement negotiations, Cooper recorded a $20.3 million after tax discontinued operations charge, net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in the second quarter of 2006 to reflect the revised terms of the proposed settlement agreement at that time. The discontinued operations accrual was $509.1 million and $529.6 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and included payments to a 524(g) trust over 25 years that were undiscounted, and included insurance recoveries of $230 million and $239 million, respectively, where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries were probable. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization on November 8, 2007, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts order on November 14, 2007. As part of its ruling, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Plan B Settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul, which would require payment of $138 million to Cooper in the event Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason, or if Cooper elected not to participate or to pursue participation in the trust. The Bankruptcy Court stated that it would consider approving Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust at a later time, and that its order confirming the plan of reorganization and approving the settlement between Cooper and Federal Mogul did not preclude later approval of Coopers participation in the 524(g) trust. Accordingly, in an effort to continue working towards approval of Coopers participation in the trust and to address certain legal issues identified by the Court, Cooper, Pneumo Abex, Federal Mogul, and other plan supporters filed the Modified Plan A Settlement Documents on December 13, 2007. The Modified Plan A Settlement Documents would have required Cooper to make an initial payment of $248.5 million in cash to the Federal Mogul trust upon implementation of Plan A with additional annual payments of up to $20 million each due over 25 years. If the Bankruptcy Court had approved the modified settlement and that settlement was implemented, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, would have continued to have access to Abex insurance policies. 2008 During the first quarter of 2008, the Bankruptcy Court concluded hearings on Plan A. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received the $138 million payment, plus interest of $3 million, in October 2008 from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and continues to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. Cooper continues to have access to Abex insurance policies. The accrual for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy and a progression of the activity is presented in the following table assuming resolution through participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust up until September 30, 2008 when the accounting was adjusted to reflect the Plan B Settlement. Nine Months Ended Twelve Months Ended September 30, December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) (in millions) Accrual at beginning of period (under Plan A) $ 509.1 $ 529.6 Indemnity and defense payments (16.9 ) (52.9 ) Insurance recoveries 25.4 39.3 Other (1.6 ) (6.9 ) Accrual at end of period (under Plan A) * $ 516.0 $ 509.1 * The $516.0 million liability reflects the estimated liability under Plan A immediately prior to adjusting the accounting on September 30, 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going 14 Table of Contents activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. The following table presents the separate assets and liabilities under the Plan B settlement and the cash activity subsequent to the September 30, 2008 Plan B Settlement date. December December September 31, 2009 31, 2008 30, 2008 (in millions) Asbestos liability analysis: Total liability for unpaid, pending and future indemnity and defense costs at end of period $ 784.5 $ 815.1 $ 823.3 Asbestos receivable analysis Receivable from Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate (received in Oct. 2008) $ $ $ 141.0 Insurance receivable for previously paid claims and insurance settlements 64.6 74.6 72.7 Insurance in place agreements available for pending and future claims 114.7 117.7 119.6 Total estimated asbestos receivable at end of period $ 179.3 $ 192.3 $ 333.3 Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) (in millions) Cash Flow: Indemnity and defense payments $ (29.9 ) $ (7.9 ) Insurance recoveries 54.6 Payment from Federal Mogul Bankruptcy Estate 141.0 Other (0.7 ) (0.3 ) Net cash flow (excluding related income taxes) $ 24.0 $ 132.8 During 2009, Cooper recognized after tax gains from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense, from negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper estimates that the undiscounted liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $784.5 million. This amount includes accruals for unpaid indemnity and defense costs at December 31, 2009 which are not significant. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in 15 Table of Contents decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, these studies, or other assumptions, may vary significantly over time from the current estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believes are reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $505 to $877 million (undiscounted). Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $680 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2009, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $179.3 million, of which $64.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers may defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $179.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2009 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. Critical Accounting Assumptions The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables are not discounted and rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. The value of the liability on a discounted basis net of the amount of insurance recoveries likely to materialize in the future would be significantly lower than the net amounts currently recognized in the balance sheet. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. As the estimated liability is not discounted and extends over 45 years, any changes in key assumptions could have a significant impact on the recorded liability. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. Other Matters Cooper and its subsidiaries are defendants or otherwise involved in a number of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We estimate the range of our liability related to pending litigation when we believe the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. When a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the lawsuits or claims. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and claims 16 Table of Contents and revise our estimates. Due to uncertainties related to the resolution of lawsuits and claims, the ultimate outcome may differ from our estimates. In the opinion of management and based on liability accruals provided, our ultimate exposure with respect to these pending lawsuits and claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or cash flows, although they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular reporting period. The U.S. Federal Government has enacted legislation intended to deny certain federal funding and government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside the United States, including Section 745 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110 161), Section 724(c) of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109 115), and 6 U.S.C. 395(b) of The Homeland Security Act. Cooper has self reported to the Department of Defense certain transactions aggregating approximately $8 million with U.S. government entities which may be subject to the legislation. At the time of this filing, it is too early to determine whether any fines or penalties may be assessed against Cooper. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Cooper Industries plc, which was incorporated under the laws of Ireland on June 4, 2009, became the successor registrant to Cooper Industries, Ltd. on September 9, 2009. Cooper common shares (symbol CBE) are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Options for Cooper common shares are listed on the NYSE Alternext U.S. exchange. As of January 31, 2010 there were 19,014 record holders of Cooper common shares. The high and low quarterly sales prices for the past two years of Cooper common shares as reported by Dow Jones Company, Inc., are as follows: Quarter 1 2 3 4 2009 High $ 31.33 $ 36.64 $ 38.89 $ 44.99 Low 18.86 24.71 28.76 36.25 2008 High $ 53.25 $ 47.55 $ 49.64 $ 40.27 Low 35.37 39.40 36.96 19.32 Cash dividends declared on Cooper Industries, Ltds Class A and Class B common shares were $.185 a share per quarter (or $.74 on an annualized basis) during 2005 and 2006, $.21 a share per quarter (or $.84 on an annualized basis) during 2007, and $.25 a share per quarter ($1.00 on an annualized basis) during 2008 and 2009 (through the dividend declared on August 3, 2009). Based on Cooper Industries, Ltds capital structure in 2009, all of the dividend distributions paid by it in 2009 are treated as a return of capital to its shareholders. For the dividends payable in 2007, 2008 and 2009 (through the dividend payable October 1, 2009), Coopers subsidiaries that held Class A and Class B shares of Cooper Industries, Ltd. received dividends on such shares. 17 Table of Contents Cash dividends of $.25 a share were declared on Cooper Industries plcs common shares on November 3, 2009 that was paid on January 4, 2010. On February 15, 2010, Coopers Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.27 per share increasing the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock to $1.08 per share. For dividends payable in 2010, Cooper currently anticipates that based on its capital structure all or a substantial portion of its dividend distributions will be treated as dividend income to its shareholders. Irish Taxes Applicable to Dividends In certain circumstances, Cooper will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to its shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the U.S. will not be subject to Irish withholding tax. Dividends paid to U.S. residents will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided that: In the case of a beneficial owner, the address of the beneficial owner in the records of his or her broker is in the United States and this information is provided by the broker to the Companys qualifying intermediary; or In the case of a record owner, the record owner has provided to the Companys transfer agent a valid W 9 showing either an address or valid taxpayer identification number. Shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. Irish income tax may also arise with respect to dividends paid on Cooper shares. A shareholder who is not a resident in Ireland who meets one of the exemptions from dividend withholding tax described above and does not hold Cooper shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on generally will not have any Irish income tax liability on a dividend paid by Cooper. If a shareholder who is not a resident in Ireland is subject to the dividend withholding tax, the withholding payment discharges any Irish income tax liability, provided the shareholder furnishes to the Irish Revenue authorities a statement of the dividend withholding tax imposed. A shareholder who is a resident of Ireland may be subject to Irish income tax and or levies on dividends received from Cooper. A Transfer of Cooper Industries plc Shares May be Subject to Irish Stamp Duty A transfer of Cooper shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. A transfer of Cooper shares by a seller who holds shares directly to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. We currently intend to pay stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases Cooper may, in its absolute discretion, pay any stamp duty. Coopers articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Cooper may seek reimbursement from the buyer or seller, at its discretion. 18 Table of Contents The following table reflects activity related to equity securities purchased by Cooper during the three months ended December 31, 2009: Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Shares Maximum Number of Total Number of Purchased as Part of Shares that May Yet Be Shares Average Price Publicly Announced Plans Purchased Under the Period Purchased Paid per Share or Programs Plans or Programs(1) As of 9/30/09 12,766,635 10/01/09 10/31/09 12,766,635 11/01/09 11/30/09 10,000 $ 39.54 10,000 12,756,635 12/01/09 12/31/09 284,600 $ 42.48 284,600 12,472,035 (2) Total 294,600 $ 42.38 294,600 (1) On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to ten million shares of Cooper common stock. On February 9, 2009, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of ten million shares of common stock in addition to the remaining February 12, 2008 authorization, which is reflected in the above table. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. For 2010, Coopers current estimate is that 2.5 million shares would be issued under equity compensation plans, which is not reflected in the above table. (2) As of the date of this filing in 2010, Cooper had repurchased 589,600 shares under the Cooper Board of Directors authorizations discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under this authorization from time to time during 2010. The decision whether to do so will depend on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. Further information required by this Item is set forth under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in Coopers Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with Coopers 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth selected historical financial data for Cooper for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2009. The selected historical financial information shown below has been derived from Coopers audited consolidated financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with Coopers consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Years Ending December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) INCOME STATEMENT DATA: Revenues $ 5,069.6 $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 $ 5,184.6 $ 4,730.4 Income from continuing operations $ 413.6 $ 615.6 $ 692.3 $ 484.3 $ 391.1 Income (charge) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 25.5 16.6 (20.3 ) (227.2 ) Net income $ 439.1 $ 632.2 $ 692.3 $ 464.0 $ 163.9 INCOME PER COMMON SHARE DATA: Basic Income from continuing operations $ 2.47 $ 3.54 $ 3.80 $ 2.64 $ 2.12 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .15 .10 (.11 ) (1.23 ) Net income $ 2.62 $ 3.64 $ 3.80 $ 2.53 $ .89 Diluted Income from continuing operations $ 2.46 $ 3.51 $ 3.73 $ 2.58 $ 2.06 Income (charge) from discontinued operations .15 .09 (.11 ) (1.19 ) Net income $ 2.61 $ 3.60 $ 3.73 $ 2.47 $ .87 BALANCE SHEET DATA (at December 31): Total assets $ 5,984.4 $ 6,164.9 $ 6,133.5 $ 5,374.8 $ 5,215.1 Long term debt, excluding current maturities 922.7 932.5 909.9 702.8 1,002.9 Shareholders equity 2,963.3 2,607.4 2,841.9 2,475.3 2,205.2 CASH DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER COMMON SHARE $ 1.00 $ 1.00 $ .84 $ .74 $ .74 In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products segment for $1.9 billion in proceeds. Discontinued operations charges of $20.3 million, which is net of an $11.4 million income tax benefit, in 2006 and $227.2 million, which is net of a $127.8 million income tax benefit, in 2005 were recorded for potential liabilities related to the Automotive Products segment sale and the Federal Mogul bankruptcy. In 2008, discontinued operations income of $16.6 million, which is net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, was recorded to reflect ongoing resolution of the potential liabilities through the tort system when the Bankruptcy Court denied Coopers participation in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. During 2009, Cooper recognized an after tax gain from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense, from negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009 that were not previously recognized. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 4,511.9 $ 5,755.7 $ 5,108.4 Tools 557.7 765.6 794.7 Total Revenues $ 5,069.6 $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2009 vs. 2008 Revenues Revenues for 2009 decreased 22.3% compared to 2008. The impact of currency translation decreased reported revenues by 2.0%, while acquisitions added approximately 0.6% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2009, which represent approximately 89% of the total revenues generated, decreased 21.6% compared to 2008. Currency translation decreased reported revenues by 1.8%. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2009 by 0.6% over 2008 revenue levels. All of the Electrical Products segment businesses reported decreased revenues for 2009. The global recession resulted in weakness in all markets for the Electrical Products segment, especially the North American and Western European markets when comparing 2009 results to 2008. Tools segment revenues for 2009, which represent about 11% of total revenues, decreased 27.2% compared to 2008. Currency translation represented a 2.8% decrease for reported revenues. Lower revenues from declining retail market activity, weaker demand in the North American and Western European industrial markets and lower requirements for assembly systems for light passenger vehicle markets drove the reduction in revenue for 2009 compared to prior year results. 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues Revenues for 2008 increased approximately 11% compared to 2007. The impact of currency translation was less than 1%, while acquisitions added approximately 7% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2008, which represented slightly more than 88% of revenues, increased approximately 13% compared to 2007. Currency translation had a minimal impact on revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2008 by nearly 8% over 2007 revenue levels. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses reported increased revenues for 2008. Revenue growth was a result of solid demand from energy, industrial, international expansion and nonresidential construction markets through the first nine months of 2008. Softness in the U.S residential market throughout the year and declines in all global markets during the fourth quarter of the year partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2008, which represented about 12% of revenues, decreased approximately 4% compared to 2007. Currency translation represented a 2% increase for reported revenues with limited increase from acquisitions. Revenue declines were driven by weak retail markets and soft demand from the motor vehicle end markets. Tools segment experienced significant weakness in most markets and geographies during the fourth quarter of 2008, particularly in the U.S. retail channel. 21 Table of Contents Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 638.2 $ 930.3 $ 848.2 Tools 18.5 81.1 94.0 Total segment operating earnings 656.7 1,011.4 942.2 Restructuring and asset impairment charges 29.9 52.4 General corporate expense 82.7 81.4 98.1 Operating earnings 544.1 877.6 844.1 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 Interest expense, net 61.4 70.4 51.0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 482.7 807.2 826.2 Income tax expense 69.1 191.6 133.9 Income from continuing operations 413.6 615.6 692.3 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 25.5 16.6 Net income $ 439.1 $ 632.2 $ 692.3 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.46 $ 3.51 $ 3.73 Income from discontinued operations .15 .09 Net income $ 2.61 $ 3.60 $ 3.73 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2009 vs. 2008 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $656.7 million in 2009, a decrease of approximately 35% compared to $1.01 billion in 2008. Electrical Products segment 2009 operating earnings decreased 31% to $638.2 million from $930.3 million for 2008. Return on revenues was 14.1% for 2009 compared to 16.2% for 2008. The decrease resulted from the reduced global market demand and adjustments made during 2009 to align production volumes to the global market demand. The Electrical Products segment invested in restructuring actions that served to reduce its cost structure during 2009. The negative impact of leverage on the segments fixed overhead from the revenue decline was partially offset by net inventory valuation adjustments (including decrements in LIFO inventory) of approximately $3 million. Tools segment 2009 operating earnings decreased 77% to $18.5 million compared to $81.1 million for 2008. Return on revenues was 3.3% for 2009 compared to 10.6% for 2008. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. The Tools segment invested in restructuring actions that served to reduce its cost structure during 2009. The negative impact of leverage on the segments fixed overhead from the revenue decline was partially offset by net inventory valuation adjustments (including decrements in LIFO inventory) of approximately $1 million. 22 Table of Contents 2008 vs. 2007 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $1.01 billion in 2008 compared to $942.2 million in 2007. Electrical Products segment 2008 operating earnings increased 10% to $930.3 million from $848.2 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 16.2% for 2008 compared to 16.6% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions and in the second half of the year inflationary costs for commodities not fully offset by available market price increases in certain product lines. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2008, production volumes were curtailed to reduce inventory to meet slowing market demands. Tools segment 2008 operating earnings decreased 14% to $81.1 million compared to $94.0 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 10.6% for 2008 compared to 11.8% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges In 2009, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $28.7 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $1.2 million. The 2009 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $29.9 million, or $24.4 million after taxes, reduced 2009 diluted earnings by $.14 per share. In 2008, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $43.3 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million. The 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $52.4 million, or $38.3 million after taxes, reduced 2008 diluted earnings by $.21 per share. In the second quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded a restructuring charge for $7.6 million in severance costs for downsizing a Tools segment international facility. This facility downsizing and related cash payments were substantially completed in 2008. As a result of the downturn in economic conditions in the latter half of 2008, Cooper committed to employment reductions to appropriately size the Companys workforce to the then current and anticipated market conditions and to downsize a domestic Tools segment manufacturing operation. These actions were taken as a part of Cooper managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of the then current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded a $35.7 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to these actions, $25.5 million of which related to the Electrical Products segment and $10.2 million related to the Tools segment. A total of 1,314 hourly and 930 salary positions were eliminated as a result of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. Of the 2,244 workforce reductions, 1,358 had exited by the end of 2008 with the remaining reductions completed in 2009. During 2009, Cooper committed to additional employment reductions and certain facility closures as a result of managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded charges of $28.7 million in 2009 related to these actions, $18.5 million of which relates to the Electrical Products segment and $8.6 million relates to the Tools segment. The remaining $1.6 million relates to reductions in Coopers corporate staff. A total of 1,088 hourly and 772 salaried positions are being eliminated as a result of the 2009 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. The workforce reductions, contract termination and other exit costs and the related cash payments associated with the accrual balances at December 31, 2009 will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. As part of the restructuring actions, Cooper has approved the closure of ten factories and warehouses, eight of which have been completed at the end of the 2009. Cooper recorded non cash impairment charges of $1.2 million related to these actions during 2009. The two remaining factory closures are expected to be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had an accrual of $6.1 million for future cash expenditures related to its restructuring actions. The related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. Cooper expects to incur incremental restructuring charges in the range of approximately $13 to $17 million 23 Table of Contents associated with the completion of planned restructuring activities as the actions are completed in 2010. Cooper estimates that the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 and during 2009 have reduced operating costs by approximately $87.5 million in 2009. Cooper expects to realize approximately $24.5 million of sequential benefits in 2010 from the restructuring actions taken to date. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper also recorded a non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million related to an investment in a previously unconsolidated international joint venture in the Electrical Products segment. In December 2008, Cooper acquired a majority interest in the international joint venture and consolidated the joint ventures net assets of $4.6 million in the accompanying December 31, 2008 balance sheet. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense increased $1.3 million during 2009 to $82.7 million compared to $81.4 million for 2008. General Corporate expense in 2009 includes approximately $4 million in costs associated with the reincorporation of the Company to Ireland. General Corporate expense in 2008 includes the favorable adjustment of approximately $7 million for long term performance based stock compensation. Excluding the impact of the costs for reincorporation to Ireland incurred in 2009 and the favorable long term performance based stock compensation adjustment to the 2008 General Corporate expense, 2009 General Corporate expense decreased approximately $10 million compared to $88.4 million in 2008 reflecting cost control actions undertaken in 2009. General Corporate expense decreased $16.7 million during 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $98.1 million for 2007. General Corporate expense in 2007 includes $8.8 million for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding the legal and environmental costs for previously disposed businesses, General Corporate expense decreased $8.2 million in 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $89.3 million in 2007 primarily from the impact of lower expense for long term performance based stock compensation. Income from Belden Agreement Income from the Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007. There was no income from the Belden agreement in 2008 or 2009. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payments are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense for 2009 was $61.4 million, a decrease of $9.0 million from 2008 primarily as a result of lower average debt balances including the retirement of $275 million of 5.5% senior unsecured notes from currently available cash in November 2009 offset partially by higher interest rates. Average debt balances were $1.17 billion and $1.34 billion and average interest rates were 5.36% and 5.22% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net interest expense for 2008 was $70.4 million, an increase of $19.4 million from 2007 primarily as a result of higher average debt balances from the utilization of debt financing to partially fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Average debt balances were $1.34 billion and $1.05 billion and average interest rates were 5.22% and 5.64% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest expense includes $6.0 million and $1.3 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively for reductions in the value of short term investments with a recovery of $0.9 million recorded during 2009. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 14.3% for 2009, 23.7% for 2008 and 16.2% for 2007. 24 Table of Contents Cooper reduced income tax expense by $12.7 million and $23.2 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively, for discrete tax items primarily related to statute expirations, state tax settlements and foreign taxes. 2007 included an $83.8 million reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. The 2007 effective tax rate was also lower due to the income from the Belden agreement being taxed in a foreign jurisdiction at a significantly lower rate than the U.S. statutory rate. Excluding the discrete tax items and the income from the Belden agreement, Coopers effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 17.0%, 26.6% and 27.3%, respectively. The decrease in Coopers 2009 effective tax rate compared to 2008, excluding the discrete tax items, is primarily related to the decrease in 2009 earnings without a corresponding decrease in projected tax benefits. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Related to Discontinued Operations During 2009, Cooper recognized an after tax gain from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense (or $.15 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. The income resulted from negotiated insurance settlements consummated during 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. The timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. During 2008, Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, which is net of a $9.4 million income tax expense (or $.09 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result of not participating in the trust, in the third quarter of 2008, Cooper adjusted its accrual for the Pneumo Abex asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries based on resolution through the tort system. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $2.46 in 2009, $3.51 in 2008 and $3.73 in 2007. The impact of the reduced global demand, restructuring and asset impairment charges partially offset by cost reduction actions and income tax reductions accounted for the overall decline in the 2009 earnings per share. The restructuring and asset impairment charges offset by the income tax reductions decreased 2009 and 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.06 and $.08, respectively. The income from the Belden agreement and income tax reduction partially offset by increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years as discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 68.1 % 67.1 % 67.0 % Tools 74.1 % 69.8 % 68.8 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 17.7 % 16.8 % 16.4 % Tools 22.6 % 19.6 % 19.4 % 2009 vs 2008 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.1% for 2009 compared to 67.1% for 2008. The increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of the lower absorption of production costs from the reduced global demand and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to reduce corresponding inventory levels; 25 Table of Contents offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008 and 2009. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 74.1% for 2009 compared to 69.8% for 2008. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve inventory reductions to match lower market demands; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008 and 2009. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2009 were 17.7% compared to 16.8% for 2008. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was unfavorably impacted by leverage from reduced revenues; partially offset by restructuring actions initiated during 2008 and 2009 that reduced reported selling and administrative expenses by 80 basis points. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2009 were 22.6% compared to 19.6% for 2008, as the 150 basis point reduction in selling and administrative expenses resulting from the cost control actions implemented was more than offset by the impact from the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. 2008 vs 2007 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.1% for 2008 compared to 67.0% for 2007. The slight increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of material inflation not fully offset through favorable product pricing achieved in the market in certain product lines and the impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 from curtailing production; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 69.8% for 2008 compared to 68.8% for 2007. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve planned inventory reductions to match lower market demands. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2008 were 16.8% compared to 16.4% for 2007. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue would have been 16.3% for 2008. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2008 were 19.6% compared to 19.4% for 2007, as cost control actions implemented during 2008 reduced selling and administrative expenses by 3% and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation were more than offset by the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. Cooper incurs certain costs that are not directly attributable to the operating segments that are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2010 based on current expectations. Cooper expects revenues for Electrical Products in 2010 to be in a range of down 2% to an increase of 3% as recovery in the global industrial and U.S. residential market demand is reduced by weak demand from the commercial construction markets. Acquisitions completed in 2009 and the impacts of currency are expected to favorably impact Electrical Products revenues by approximately 2%. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects revenues to increase in the 7% to 12% range as the global industrial, residential and motor vehicle markets begin to recover. Operating earnings are expected to improve from restructuring actions taken during 2008 and 2009 and the favorable leverage of fixed costs. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.90, excluding further restructuring costs. 26 Table of Contents Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. However, unit volumes in both the Electrical Products and Tools segments decreased in 2009 with the global recession impacting all of Coopers businesses. During the first half of 2009, Cooper recognized favorable year over year customer pricing impacts from actions taken during 2008. The second half of 2009 saw a decline in customer pricing as commodity prices weakened from their 2008 elevated levels. During 2009, Cooper was able to maintain a positive benefit from the difference between price realization and material inflation / deflation. During 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation During 2009 as the global economies showed some signs of recovery, the pricing of commodities used in the manufacture of certain products began to escalate. However, in 2009, the overall mix of inflationary and deflationary material costs was not significant and Cooper has been able to maintain customer pricing sufficient to offset the changing commodity costs. During 2008 and 2007, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. During 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper realized price increases and productivity improvements at least equal to material purchase cost increases. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper mitigates the price volatility of selected commodities such as copper and steel through the use of derivatives and supply agreements. The impact of changes to these commodity costs could impact margins for several quarters as a result of this activity. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base have mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital decreased $263.5 million during 2009. A $213.7 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $157.9 million decrease in inventories partially offset by a $108.1 million decrease in accounts payable were driven primarily by a 22% decrease in sales and aggressive actions to right size Coopers businesses for current market conditions. Coopers operating working capital at December 31, 2009 was approximately 23% lower than at December 31, 2008 as operating working capital levels have been adjusted to the current lower operating levels. Operating working capital turnover 27 Table of Contents (defined as annualized quarterly revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for the fourth quarter of 2009 was 5.4 turns compared to 4.9 turns for the same period of 2008. Coopers operating working capital increased $1.5 million during 2008. The increase included a $40.6 million decrease in accounts payable substantially offset by a $37.2 million decrease in receivables and a $1.9 million decrease in inventories. The increase in operating working capital of $80.2 million from completed acquisitions and consolidation of a now majority owned international joint venture was substantially offset by initiatives focused on improved inventory turns and improved accounts receivable performance as measured by days sales outstanding. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $751.9 million during 2009. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 is net of a $90 million payment related to a German tax dispute (see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information) and a $25 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan. The cash from operating activities, plus $22.9 million from redemption of short term investments and $20.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises was primarily used to fund debt repayments of $299.6 million, dividends of $167.4 million, capital expenditures of $126.7 million, acquisitions of $61.4 million, and share purchases of $38.5 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $896.4 million during 2008. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 includes the $141 million payment from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate partially offset by $60 million of voluntary contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as the related tax affect of these items. The cash from operating activities, plus $297.5 million of net proceeds from issuances of debt, $290.1 million of proceeds from cash previously restricted, $65.7 million from redemption of short term investments, and $17.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises, was primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $137.0 million, acquisitions of $297.0 million, dividends of $170.3 million, debt repayments of $397.2 million and share purchases of $517.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $795.3 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $190.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251.3 million, and $68.3 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $115.5 million, acquisitions of $336.1 million, dividends of $154.3 million, share purchases of $343.9 million, and $93.7 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290.1 million to fund a binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that closed as expected in the first quarter of 2008. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Coopers contingent liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale to Federal Mogul in 1998 will continue to be resolved through the tort system. Cooper anticipates that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will average in the range of $20 to $30 million, although amounts will vary as the amount of the actual annual net cash outlay is not reasonably predictable. In 2009, insurance recoveries exceeded cash outlays due to negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009. Coopers financial position and liquidity has remained strong during the global economic recession. While the length and depth of the recession was more severe than predicted by most experts, Cooper proactively and aggressively adjusted its cost structure. In this regard, in the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper implemented contingency plans to reduce its cost structure and recognized a restructuring charge of $35.7 28 Table of Contents million primarily related to reductions in workforce in excess of 2,200 employees. During 2009, Cooper further reduced its workforce by approximately 1,900 additional employees and recognized restructuring charges of $28.7 million. Cash flows from operating activities in 2009 have been reduced by the $52.3 million expended in connection with the restructuring actions. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had a $6.1 million accrual related to these activities for which the related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. As part of the restructuring actions, Cooper approved the closure of ten factories and warehouses, eight of which were completed at the end of 2009. The two remaining factory closures are expected to be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. Cooper expects to incur incremental restructuring charges in the range of approximately $13 to $17 million associated with the completion of planned restructuring activities as the actions are completed in 2010. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. On November 2, 2009, Cooper repaid the $275 million 5.5% senior unsecured notes at maturity with existing cash. The decrease in the value of the assets included in Coopers defined benefit pension plans (Plans) resulting from the deterioration in the securities markets in 2008 was partially recovered in 2009. Cooper made voluntary cash contributions to the Plans of $60 million in December 2008 and an additional $25 million in September 2009. The change in fair value of the Plans, the cash contributions and the actuarial change in the benefit obligations has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in fair value of the Plans assets and other actuarial changes in 2009 will result in a decrease to total pension costs for 2010 of approximately $7.1 million as compared to total pension costs in 2009. During 2010, Cooper expects to pay in cash approximately $7.7 million for payment of unfunded pension plan benefits and make approximately $2.7 million in employer contributions to certain international funded defined benefit pension plans. Cooper does not expect to have any minimum regulatory funding requirement for its U.S. funded defined benefit pension plans in 2010. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $475 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment, dividends and common stock repurchases in 2010. Debt At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $381.6 million and $258.8 million, respectively and short term investments of $21.9 million at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Cooper had short term debt of $9.4 million and $25.6 million, respectively. Cooper had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2009 or 2008. On August 14, 2009 Cooper entered into a credit agreement that provides a $350 million three year committed bank credit facility that matures in August 2012 replacing Coopers previous credit facility that was to mature in November 2009. Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt balance with a combination of cash, cash equivalents, and committed credit facilities. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash or short term investments, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facility. The credit facility agreement is not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreement limits Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and requires Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreement. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash 29 Table of Contents and its committed credit facility to provide short term funding. The committed credit facility does not contain any provision, which makes their availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of 5.45% fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2015. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay commercial paper outstanding at that time. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of 6.10% fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2017. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay $300 million of maturing 5.25% senior unsecured notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75%. On November 8, 2005, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc., issued $325 million of 5.25% fixed rate senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Proceeds of the notes were swapped to 272.6 million with cross currency interest rate swaps, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $107.4 million and $107.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately eighty percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due Four to Less than One to Five After Total One Year Three Years Years Five Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 927.3 $ 2.3 $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 Short Term Debt 9.4 9.4 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt 287.7 51.9 103.4 69.3 63.1 Noncancellable Operating Leases 102.5 26.6 36.7 16.3 22.9 Purchase Obligations 261.8 258.2 3.6 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 282.4 22.3 42.6 41.0 176.5 $ 1,871.1 $ 370.7 $ 511.3 $ 126.6 $ 862.5 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded defined benefit pension plan liabilities and environmental liabilities. Also includes liabilities for underfunded U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $35.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. 30 Table of Contents Capitalization On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. On February 9, 2009, Coopers Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares. At December 31, 2009, 12,472,035 shares remained available to purchase under these authorizations. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. For 2010, Coopers current estimate is that 2.5 million shares would be issued under equity compensation plans. As of the date of this filing in 2010, Cooper had repurchased 589,600 shares under the Board of Director authorizations discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time during 2010. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to fund acquisitions or to purchase shares of Cooper common stock. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 24.0%, 32.1% and 30.8%, respectively. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 15, 2010, Coopers Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.27 per share increasing the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock to $1.08 per share. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $127 million in 2009, $137 million in 2008, and $116 million in 2007. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $110 to $120 million in 2010. Projected expenditures for 2010 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products and cost reduction programs. 31 Table of Contents Interest Rate, Currency and Commodity Price Risk Changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2009 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates in effect during the periods presented. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ $ 600.0 $ 927.3 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of approximately 3.5%. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2008 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 $ 1,202.3 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of approximately 3.5%. 32 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2009. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in 2010 2011 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 42.9 $ 352.9 Average contract rate 1.724 1.910 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 147.2 $ 170.7 Average contract rate 1.627 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 348.2 Average contract rate 1.446 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 92.5 Average contract rate 1.385 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 41.2 Average contract rate .922 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 16.0 Average contract rate .722 Changes in availability and fluctuations in commodity prices for raw materials such as steel, copper, aluminum and zinc affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. Cooper primarily manages this exposure through price changes; however, in periods of significant increases in commodity prices, the price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lag the increased costs. Cooper also uses commodity swaps to reduce the volatility of price fluctuations on a portion of certain forecasted material purchases for copper, aluminum and zinc for periods up to eighteen months. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $15 million, all of which mature in 2010. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $68 million, 90% of which matured in 2009. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2008. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 33 Table of Contents Mature in Mature in 2009 2010 2011 Mature in 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 111.5 $ 48.4 $ 328.8 Average contract rate 1.648 1.921 1.909 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 11.9 $ 23.5 $ 159.0 Average contract rate 1.894 1.864 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 148.9 Average contract rate 1.286 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 49.8 Average contract rate 1.209 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 44.7 Average contract rate .079 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.5 Average contract rate .675 Australian Dollar Functional Currency Buy Australian Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.5 Average contract rate 1.122 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped, and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns 34 Table of Contents and other allowances reported net in receivables was $77.9 million and $89.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cooper provides certain customers incentives primarily consisting of volume discounts and other short term discount and promotion programs. Cooper recognizes these incentives as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of the qualifying sale based on our estimate of the ultimate incentive amount to be earned using historical experience and known trends. If actual customer incentives differ from our estimates, additional accruals may be required. The accrual for customer incentives reported in accrued liabilities was $70.2 million and $108.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $83.7 million at December 31, 2009 and $77.0 million at December 31, 2008. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. Total net periodic pension benefit cost was $26.1 million in 2009, $7.6 million in 2008 and $3.9 million in 2007. The increase in the net periodic pension cost in 2009 resulted from a decline in fair value of the plan assets and other actuarial changes related to the deterioration in the securities markets in 2008. Total net periodic pension benefit cost in 2008 includes a $3.7 million curtailment loss as a result of ceasing future benefit accruals for two defined benefit plans in the U.K. The estimated net periodic pension benefit cost of $19.0 million for 2010 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 5.5% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was ($0.4) million in 2009 and $0.7 million in 2008. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately $0.7 million in 2010, assuming a discount rate of 5.5%. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards is estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted is measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. During 2007 and through the 35 Table of Contents third quarter of 2008, performance goals were assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper revised its assumption to lower the performance goals assumed to be achieved to below the maximum level for performance awards granted in 2007 and 2008. The revised achievement levels assumed for the 2007 and 2008 performance award grants considered the past performance and current expectations of future performance in the respective three year performance period. As a result of lowering the performance goals assumed to be achieved, Cooper adjusted previously recognized stock based compensation expense by reducing operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008 by $11.3 million. Performance goals for performance awards granted in 2009 are assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. Total stock based compensation expense was $26.3 million in 2009, $23.1 million in 2008 and $39.0 million in 2007. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $27.1 million at December 31, 2009 and $29.4 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. The resolution of tax audits and litigation could have a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized. In 2009 and 2008, Cooper reduced income tax expense by $12.7 million ($.08 per share) and $23.2 million ($.13 per share), respectively, as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, tax settlements and other discrete tax items. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper has goodwill of $2.64 billion and $2.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Cooper records goodwill related to business acquisitions when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test and Cooper has designated January 1 as the date of this test. If an event occurs, or circumstances change, that 36 Table of Contents would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value; an interim impairment test would be performed between annual tests. Cooper has identified eight reporting units, consisting of seven units in the Electrical Products reportable operating segment plus the Tools reportable operating segment, for which goodwill is tested for impairment. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed. The second step compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill to the carrying amount of its goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination (e.g., the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit). The primary technique we utilize in estimating the fair value of our reporting units is discounted cash flow analysis. Discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgments, estimates and assumptions, many of which are interdependent, about future sales, operating margins, growth rates, capital expenditures, working capital and discount rates. In addition to estimating the fair value of each of our reporting units using discounted cash flow analysis, we compare the sum of the fair values of our reporting units that resulted from the discounted cash flow analysis to our market capitalization to determine that our estimates of reporting unit fair value are reasonable. The starting point for the assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis is the annual long range financial forecast. The annual planning process that we undertake to prepare the long range financial forecast takes into consideration a multitude of factors including historical growth rates and operating performance, related industry trends, macroeconomic conditions, inflationary and deflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, customer needs and marketplace data, among others. Assumptions are also made for perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long range financial forecast period. Our estimates of fair value are sensitive to changes in all of these variables, certain of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside our control. The long range financial forecast is typically completed early in the fourth quarter of each year, and it serves as the primary basis for our estimate of reporting unit fair values used in our annual impairment tests, absent significant changes in our outlook on future results. In determining the fair value of our reporting units at January 1, 2010, we were required to make significant judgments and estimates regarding the expected recovery from the recent global economic recession. The forecast assumptions for 2010 include a recovery to begin in certain markets and realization of benefits from our 2008 and 2009 cost reduction actions to reduce our overall cost structure. We forecasted revenues for all but one of the Electrical Products reporting units to increase in 2010 in the range of 1% to 8% with an average net increase of 1%. We projected a compounded annual growth rate in the mid single digits through 2012 for Electrical Products. We forecasted Tools revenues to increase in 2010 by 9% with a projected compounded annual growth rate in the mid single digits through 2012. In developing our forecast, we considered the historical operating results achieved and the future outlook in each of our businesses. While Electrical Products revenue declined in 2009 by 22% due to the global economic recession, over the three year period through 2008, Electrical Products revenues increased annually in the range of 11% to 15%. Tools revenues increased approximately 4% in 2006 and 5% in 2007 and declined approximately 4% in 2008 and 27% in 2009. During the five year period through 2009, Cooper achieved compounded annual growth in earnings from continuing operations of approximately 5% (2005 15%; 2006 24%; 2007 20%; 2008 8%; 2009 33% decline) and free cash flow in excess of recurring earnings from continuing operations in each year. We estimate a 3% annual growth rate beyond 2012 to arrive at a normalized residual year representing the perpetual cash flows of each reporting unit. The forecasted 3% annual growth rate is less than Coopers historical compounded annual growth rate achieved through 2009 for the prior five year period 37 Table of Contents and is consistent with the historical compounded annual growth rate over the prior ten year period. The residual year cash flow was capitalized to arrive at the terminal value for each of the reporting units. Utilizing a discount rate of 11% for each reporting unit in the Electrical Products segment and 11.5% for the Tools reporting unit, the present value of the cash flows during the projection period and terminal value were aggregated to estimate the fair value for each of the reporting units. We assumed a discount rate of 11% in our discounted cash flow analysis at January 1, 2009 for each of our reporting units. In determining the appropriate discount rate, we considered the weighted average cost of capital for market participants. Due to the effects of the global economic recession on our operations, we determined that the excess fair value for each of our reporting units over its carrying value as of January 1, 2010 was generally consistent with such excess as of January 1, 2009, although the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeded carrying value was smaller than it was prior to the downturn in the global economy in the latter half of 2008. If the recovery from the recent global economic recession takes longer than we have projected or the economic environment worsens, the estimated fair values of our reporting units could decrease. The following table provides information for each of Coopers eight reporting units. $ in millions Percentage Reduction Fair Value Fair Value Required to in Excess in Excess Reduce 1/1/10 of Carrying of Carrying Estimated Fair Goodwill at Value at Goodwill at Value at Value to Reporting Unit 12/31/08 (2) 1/1/09 (1) 12/31/09 (2) 1/1/10 (1) Carrying Value B Line $ 303.4 88 % $ 304.2 93 % 48 % Bussmann 337.8 65 % 333.8 61 % 38 % Crouse Hinds 362.8 192 % 390.2 273 % 73 % Lighting 362.1 93 % 375.7 91 % 48 % Wiring Devices 82.7 72 % 79.8 51 % 34 % Power Systems 443.1 85 % 446.1 81 % 45 % Safety 374.0 35 % 408.5 31 % 24 % Tools 301.4 35 % 304.9 32 % 24 % (1) Expressed as a percentage of carrying value. (2) There were no changes in the allocation of goodwill between reporting units. The changes in goodwill are due to the effect of acquisitions and translation. In addition to estimating the fair value of each of our reporting units using the discounted cash flow analysis as described above, we compared the sum of the fair values of our reporting units that resulted from the discounted cash flow analysis to our market capitalization to determine that our estimates of reporting unit fair value were reasonable. As of December 31, 2009, our equity market capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion, compared to the $3.0 billion book value of equity. As of December 31, 2008, our equity market capitalization was approximately $5.1 billion, compared to the $2.6 billion book value of equity. The above table reflects the percentage reduction in estimated fair value required to reduce the stated fair value estimates to the respective reporting units carrying value at January 1, 2010. To evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations and to address the uncertainty inherent in estimating the fair values of our reporting units, we applied a range of discount rates and long term cash flow growth assumptions. Discount rates applied ranged from 9% to 13% with long term cash flow growth assumptions ranging from 2% to 4%. Under this range of assumptions, only one scenario would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value (with the fair value approximately 2% below its carrying value). If the projected recovery from the global economic recession is significantly delayed beyond our projections, it is possible 38 Table of Contents the estimated fair values of certain reporting units could decrease such that the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be completed. There are significant inherent uncertainties and management judgment involved in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, it is possible that a material change could occur. If actual results are not consistent with our current estimates and assumptions, or if changes in macroeconomic conditions outside the control of management change such that it results in a significant negative impact on our estimated fair values, we may be required to perform the second step of the impairment test for one or more of our reporting units, which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill. In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further in Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and continues to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. During 2009, Cooper recognized an after tax gain from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense, from negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper estimates that the undiscounted liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $784.5 million. This amount includes accruals for unpaid indemnity and defense costs at December 31, 2009 which are not significant. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. However, a discounted value would likely be approximately 60% or less of the $784.5 million liability recorded. 39 Table of Contents The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, these studies, or other assumptions, may vary significantly over time from the current estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believes are reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $505 to $877 million (undiscounted). Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $680 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2009, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $179.3 million, of which $64.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers may defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $179.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2009 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables are not discounted and rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. The value of the liability on a discounted basis net of the amount of insurance recoveries likely to materialize in the future would be significantly lower than the net amounts currently recognized in the balance sheet. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. As the estimated liability is not discounted and extends over 45 years, any changes in key assumptions could have a significant impact on the recorded liability. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper could record a charge or income related to the discontinued operations asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. 40 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Electrical Products $ 4,511.9 $ 5,755.7 $ 5,108.4 Tools 557.7 765.6 794.7 Total Revenues $ 5,069.6 $ 6,521.3 $ 5,903.1 See the geographic information included in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of revenues by country. 2009 vs. 2008 Revenues Revenues for 2009 decreased 22.3% compared to 2008. The impact of currency translation decreased reported revenues by 2.0%, while acquisitions added approximately 0.6% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2009, which represent approximately 89% of the total revenues generated, decreased 21.6% compared to 2008. Currency translation decreased reported revenues by 1.8%. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2009 by 0.6% over 2008 revenue levels. All of the Electrical Products segment businesses reported decreased revenues for 2009. The global recession resulted in weakness in all markets for the Electrical Products segment, especially the North American and Western European markets when comparing 2009 results to 2008. Tools segment revenues for 2009, which represent about 11% of total revenues, decreased 27.2% compared to 2008. Currency translation represented a 2.8% decrease for reported revenues. Lower revenues from declining retail market activity, weaker demand in the North American and Western European industrial markets and lower requirements for assembly systems for light passenger vehicle markets drove the reduction in revenue for 2009 compared to prior year results. 2008 vs. 2007 Revenues Revenues for 2008 increased approximately 11% compared to 2007. The impact of currency translation was less than 1%, while acquisitions added approximately 7% in revenues. Electrical Products segment revenues for 2008, which represented slightly more than 88% of revenues, increased approximately 13% compared to 2007. Currency translation had a minimal impact on revenue growth. The impact of acquisitions increased the segment revenues for 2008 by nearly 8% over 2007 revenue levels. Six of the seven Electrical Products segment businesses reported increased revenues for 2008. Revenue growth was a result of solid demand from energy, industrial, international expansion and nonresidential construction markets through the first nine months of 2008. Softness in the U.S residential market throughout the year and declines in all global markets during the fourth quarter of the year partially offset these increases. Tools segment revenues for 2008, which represented about 12% of revenues, decreased approximately 4% compared to 2007. Currency translation represented a 2% increase for reported revenues with limited increase from acquisitions. Revenue declines were driven by weak retail markets and soft demand from the motor vehicle end markets. Tools segment experienced significant weakness in most markets and geographies during the fourth quarter of 2008, particularly in the U.S. retail channel. 21 Table of Contents Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Electrical Products $ 638.2 $ 930.3 $ 848.2 Tools 18.5 81.1 94.0 Total segment operating earnings 656.7 1,011.4 942.2 Restructuring and asset impairment charges 29.9 52.4 General corporate expense 82.7 81.4 98.1 Operating earnings 544.1 877.6 844.1 Income from Belden agreement 33.1 Interest expense, net 61.4 70.4 51.0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 482.7 807.2 826.2 Income tax expense 69.1 191.6 133.9 Income from continuing operations 413.6 615.6 692.3 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 25.5 16.6 Net income $ 439.1 $ 632.2 $ 692.3 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.46 $ 3.51 $ 3.73 Income from discontinued operations .15 .09 Net income $ 2.61 $ 3.60 $ 3.73 Cooper measures the performance of its businesses exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and financing expenses. All costs directly attributable to operating businesses are included in segment operating earnings. Corporate overhead costs, including costs of traditional headquarters activities, such as treasury, are not allocated to the businesses. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2009 vs. 2008 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $656.7 million in 2009, a decrease of approximately 35% compared to $1.01 billion in 2008. Electrical Products segment 2009 operating earnings decreased 31% to $638.2 million from $930.3 million for 2008. Return on revenues was 14.1% for 2009 compared to 16.2% for 2008. The decrease resulted from the reduced global market demand and adjustments made during 2009 to align production volumes to the global market demand. The Electrical Products segment invested in restructuring actions that served to reduce its cost structure during 2009. The negative impact of leverage on the segments fixed overhead from the revenue decline was partially offset by net inventory valuation adjustments (including decrements in LIFO inventory) of approximately $3 million. Tools segment 2009 operating earnings decreased 77% to $18.5 million compared to $81.1 million for 2008. Return on revenues was 3.3% for 2009 compared to 10.6% for 2008. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. The Tools segment invested in restructuring actions that served to reduce its cost structure during 2009. The negative impact of leverage on the segments fixed overhead from the revenue decline was partially offset by net inventory valuation adjustments (including decrements in LIFO inventory) of approximately $1 million. 22 Table of Contents 2008 vs. 2007 Segment Operating Earnings Segment Operating Earnings were $1.01 billion in 2008 compared to $942.2 million in 2007. Electrical Products segment 2008 operating earnings increased 10% to $930.3 million from $848.2 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 16.2% for 2008 compared to 16.6% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions and in the second half of the year inflationary costs for commodities not fully offset by available market price increases in certain product lines. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2008, production volumes were curtailed to reduce inventory to meet slowing market demands. Tools segment 2008 operating earnings decreased 14% to $81.1 million compared to $94.0 million for 2007. Return on revenues was 10.6% for 2008 compared to 11.8% for 2007. The decrease in earnings as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the declining demand for Tools segment products and the related impact of reduced production volumes. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges In 2009, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $28.7 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $1.2 million. The 2009 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $29.9 million, or $24.4 million after taxes, reduced 2009 diluted earnings by $.14 per share. In 2008, Cooper recognized a pre tax restructuring charge of $43.3 million and a pre tax non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million. The 2008 restructuring and asset impairment charges of $52.4 million, or $38.3 million after taxes, reduced 2008 diluted earnings by $.21 per share. In the second quarter of 2008, Cooper recorded a restructuring charge for $7.6 million in severance costs for downsizing a Tools segment international facility. This facility downsizing and related cash payments were substantially completed in 2008. As a result of the downturn in economic conditions in the latter half of 2008, Cooper committed to employment reductions to appropriately size the Companys workforce to the then current and anticipated market conditions and to downsize a domestic Tools segment manufacturing operation. These actions were taken as a part of Cooper managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of the then current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded a $35.7 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to these actions, $25.5 million of which related to the Electrical Products segment and $10.2 million related to the Tools segment. A total of 1,314 hourly and 930 salary positions were eliminated as a result of the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. Of the 2,244 workforce reductions, 1,358 had exited by the end of 2008 with the remaining reductions completed in 2009. During 2009, Cooper committed to additional employment reductions and certain facility closures as a result of managements ongoing assessment of its hourly and salary workforce and its required production capacity in consideration of current and anticipated market conditions and demand levels. Cooper recorded charges of $28.7 million in 2009 related to these actions, $18.5 million of which relates to the Electrical Products segment and $8.6 million relates to the Tools segment. The remaining $1.6 million relates to reductions in Coopers corporate staff. A total of 1,088 hourly and 772 salaried positions are being eliminated as a result of the 2009 restructuring actions to reduce Coopers workforce. The workforce reductions, contract termination and other exit costs and the related cash payments associated with the accrual balances at December 31, 2009 will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. As part of the restructuring actions, Cooper has approved the closure of ten factories and warehouses, eight of which have been completed at the end of the 2009. Cooper recorded non cash impairment charges of $1.2 million related to these actions during 2009. The two remaining factory closures are expected to be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had an accrual of $6.1 million for future cash expenditures related to its restructuring actions. The related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. Cooper expects to incur incremental restructuring charges in the range of approximately $13 to $17 million 23 Table of Contents associated with the completion of planned restructuring activities as the actions are completed in 2010. Cooper estimates that the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 and during 2009 have reduced operating costs by approximately $87.5 million in 2009. Cooper expects to realize approximately $24.5 million of sequential benefits in 2010 from the restructuring actions taken to date. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper also recorded a non cash impairment charge of $9.1 million related to an investment in a previously unconsolidated international joint venture in the Electrical Products segment. In December 2008, Cooper acquired a majority interest in the international joint venture and consolidated the joint ventures net assets of $4.6 million in the accompanying December 31, 2008 balance sheet. General Corporate Expense General Corporate expense increased $1.3 million during 2009 to $82.7 million compared to $81.4 million for 2008. General Corporate expense in 2009 includes approximately $4 million in costs associated with the reincorporation of the Company to Ireland. General Corporate expense in 2008 includes the favorable adjustment of approximately $7 million for long term performance based stock compensation. Excluding the impact of the costs for reincorporation to Ireland incurred in 2009 and the favorable long term performance based stock compensation adjustment to the 2008 General Corporate expense, 2009 General Corporate expense decreased approximately $10 million compared to $88.4 million in 2008 reflecting cost control actions undertaken in 2009. General Corporate expense decreased $16.7 million during 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $98.1 million for 2007. General Corporate expense in 2007 includes $8.8 million for legal and environmental costs related to businesses disposed of in prior years. Excluding the legal and environmental costs for previously disposed businesses, General Corporate expense decreased $8.2 million in 2008 to $81.4 million compared to $89.3 million in 2007 primarily from the impact of lower expense for long term performance based stock compensation. Income from Belden Agreement Income from the Belden agreement was $33.1 million in 2007. There was no income from the Belden agreement in 2008 or 2009. In 1993, Cooper completed an initial public offering of the stock of Belden, formerly a division of Cooper. Under the agreement, Belden and Cooper made an election that increased the tax basis of certain Belden assets. Belden is required to pay Cooper ninety percent of the amount by which Belden has actually reduced tax payments that would otherwise have been payable if the increase in the tax basis of assets had not occurred, as realized principally over fifteen years. If Belden does not have sufficient future taxable income, it is possible that Belden will not be able to utilize the tax deductions arising from the increase in the tax basis of the assets resulting in a tax loss carryforward. Belden is not obligated to pay Cooper until a tax loss carryforward is utilized. Belden can carry any loss forward twenty years to offset future taxable income. Cooper estimates that between $40 and $45 million in future payments potentially remain under the Belden agreement. The timing and ultimate receipt of future payments are contingent upon the ultimate taxable income Belden reports each year. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense for 2009 was $61.4 million, a decrease of $9.0 million from 2008 primarily as a result of lower average debt balances including the retirement of $275 million of 5.5% senior unsecured notes from currently available cash in November 2009 offset partially by higher interest rates. Average debt balances were $1.17 billion and $1.34 billion and average interest rates were 5.36% and 5.22% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net interest expense for 2008 was $70.4 million, an increase of $19.4 million from 2007 primarily as a result of higher average debt balances from the utilization of debt financing to partially fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Average debt balances were $1.34 billion and $1.05 billion and average interest rates were 5.22% and 5.64% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net interest expense includes $6.0 million and $1.3 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively for reductions in the value of short term investments with a recovery of $0.9 million recorded during 2009. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate attributable to continuing operations was 14.3% for 2009, 23.7% for 2008 and 16.2% for 2007. 24 Table of Contents Cooper reduced income tax expense by $12.7 million and $23.2 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively, for discrete tax items primarily related to statute expirations, state tax settlements and foreign taxes. 2007 included an $83.8 million reduction of income tax expense associated principally with finalized settlements with the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, the expiration of the statute of limitation regarding certain potential tax exposure matters, changes to state and international valuation allowances and tax benefits of international reorganizations. The 2007 effective tax rate was also lower due to the income from the Belden agreement being taxed in a foreign jurisdiction at a significantly lower rate than the U.S. statutory rate. Excluding the discrete tax items and the income from the Belden agreement, Coopers effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 17.0%, 26.6% and 27.3%, respectively. The decrease in Coopers 2009 effective tax rate compared to 2008, excluding the discrete tax items, is primarily related to the decrease in 2009 earnings without a corresponding decrease in projected tax benefits. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Related to Discontinued Operations During 2009, Cooper recognized an after tax gain from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense (or $.15 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment, which was sold in 1998. The income resulted from negotiated insurance settlements consummated during 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. The timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. During 2008, Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, which is net of a $9.4 million income tax expense (or $.09 per diluted share) related to its asbestos liability regarding the Automotive Products segment. On September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court denied the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust. As a result of not participating in the trust, in the third quarter of 2008, Cooper adjusted its accrual for the Pneumo Abex asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries based on resolution through the tort system. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $2.46 in 2009, $3.51 in 2008 and $3.73 in 2007. The impact of the reduced global demand, restructuring and asset impairment charges partially offset by cost reduction actions and income tax reductions accounted for the overall decline in the 2009 earnings per share. The restructuring and asset impairment charges offset by the income tax reductions decreased 2009 and 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.06 and $.08, respectively. The income from the Belden agreement and income tax reduction partially offset by increased legal and environmental costs on businesses disposed of in prior years as discussed above increased 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $.59. Percentage of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Cost of Sales: Electrical Products 68.1 % 67.1 % 67.0 % Tools 74.1 % 69.8 % 68.8 % Selling and Administrative: Electrical Products 17.7 % 16.8 % 16.4 % Tools 22.6 % 19.6 % 19.4 % 2009 vs 2008 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 68.1% for 2009 compared to 67.1% for 2008. The increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of the lower absorption of production costs from the reduced global demand and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to reduce corresponding inventory levels; 25 Table of Contents offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008 and 2009. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 74.1% for 2009 compared to 69.8% for 2008. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve inventory reductions to match lower market demands; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008 and 2009. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2009 were 17.7% compared to 16.8% for 2008. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was unfavorably impacted by leverage from reduced revenues; partially offset by restructuring actions initiated during 2008 and 2009 that reduced reported selling and administrative expenses by 80 basis points. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2009 were 22.6% compared to 19.6% for 2008, as the 150 basis point reduction in selling and administrative expenses resulting from the cost control actions implemented was more than offset by the impact from the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. 2008 vs 2007 Percentage of Revenues Electrical Products segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, was 67.1% for 2008 compared to 67.0% for 2007. The slight increase in costs of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily the result of material inflation not fully offset through favorable product pricing achieved in the market in certain product lines and the impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 from curtailing production; offset by productivity improvements and cost reduction actions taken during 2008. Tools segment cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, was 69.8% for 2008 compared to 68.8% for 2007. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was due to the lower absorption of production costs from lower volumes and inefficiencies associated with adjusting manufacturing levels to achieve planned inventory reductions to match lower market demands. Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenues, for 2008 were 16.8% compared to 16.4% for 2007. The increase in selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was favorably impacted by leverage and productivity initiatives and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation offset by the higher average percentage of revenue for the newly acquired organizations. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Electrical Products segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue would have been 16.3% for 2008. Tools segment selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue for 2008 were 19.6% compared to 19.4% for 2007, as cost control actions implemented during 2008 reduced selling and administrative expenses by 3% and lower expenses for long term performance based stock compensation were more than offset by the decline in revenue for the Tools segment. Cooper incurs certain costs that are not directly attributable to the operating segments that are reflected as General Corporate expenses. See the General Corporate Expense section above. Earnings Outlook The following sets forth Coopers general business outlook for 2010 based on current expectations. Cooper expects revenues for Electrical Products in 2010 to be in a range of down 2% to an increase of 3% as recovery in the global industrial and U.S. residential market demand is reduced by weak demand from the commercial construction markets. Acquisitions completed in 2009 and the impacts of currency are expected to favorably impact Electrical Products revenues by approximately 2%. In the Tools segment, Cooper expects revenues to increase in the 7% to 12% range as the global industrial, residential and motor vehicle markets begin to recover. Operating earnings are expected to improve from restructuring actions taken during 2008 and 2009 and the favorable leverage of fixed costs. Cooper is expecting diluted continuing earnings per share to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.90, excluding further restructuring costs. 26 Table of Contents Pricing and Volume In each of Coopers segments, the nature of many of the products sold is such that an accurate determination of the changes in unit volume of sales is neither practical nor, in some cases, meaningful. Each segment produces a family of products, within which there exist considerable variations in size, configuration and other characteristics. However, unit volumes in both the Electrical Products and Tools segments decreased in 2009 with the global recession impacting all of Coopers businesses. During the first half of 2009, Cooper recognized favorable year over year customer pricing impacts from actions taken during 2008. The second half of 2009 saw a decline in customer pricing as commodity prices weakened from their 2008 elevated levels. During 2009, Cooper was able to maintain a positive benefit from the difference between price realization and material inflation / deflation. During 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper experienced an overall increase in customer pricing, primarily in response to increased material, energy and components costs. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper has aggressively acted to control and reduce costs during the three year period through strategic sourcing, manufacturing improvement and rationalization efforts in order to improve profitability in the segments. Effect of Inflation During 2009 as the global economies showed some signs of recovery, the pricing of commodities used in the manufacture of certain products began to escalate. However, in 2009, the overall mix of inflationary and deflationary material costs was not significant and Cooper has been able to maintain customer pricing sufficient to offset the changing commodity costs. During 2008 and 2007, there were significant increases in certain key commodities and components, which resulted in price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lagging the increased costs. During 2007 and through the first half of 2008, Cooper realized price increases and productivity improvements at least equal to material purchase cost increases. During the second half of 2008, Cooper was unable to fully offset inflationary costs for commodities by available market price increases primarily in certain product lines with heavy material content. Cooper mitigates the price volatility of selected commodities such as copper and steel through the use of derivatives and supply agreements. The impact of changes to these commodity costs could impact margins for several quarters as a result of this activity. Coopers on going initiatives to improve productivity and rationalize its operational base have mitigated increases in employee compensation and benefits, as well as general inflation on operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Working Capital For purposes of this discussion, operating working capital is defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable. Coopers operating working capital decreased $263.5 million during 2009. A $213.7 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $157.9 million decrease in inventories partially offset by a $108.1 million decrease in accounts payable were driven primarily by a 22% decrease in sales and aggressive actions to right size Coopers businesses for current market conditions. Coopers operating working capital at December 31, 2009 was approximately 23% lower than at December 31, 2008 as operating working capital levels have been adjusted to the current lower operating levels. Operating working capital turnover 27 Table of Contents (defined as annualized quarterly revenues divided by average quarterly operating working capital) for the fourth quarter of 2009 was 5.4 turns compared to 4.9 turns for the same period of 2008. Coopers operating working capital increased $1.5 million during 2008. The increase included a $40.6 million decrease in accounts payable substantially offset by a $37.2 million decrease in receivables and a $1.9 million decrease in inventories. The increase in operating working capital of $80.2 million from completed acquisitions and consolidation of a now majority owned international joint venture was substantially offset by initiatives focused on improved inventory turns and improved accounts receivable performance as measured by days sales outstanding. Coopers operating working capital increased $127.3 million during 2007. The increase included a $152.6 million increase in receivables and a $36.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in accounts payable, which were driven primarily by increased sales volume and actions to improve customer service, as well as working capital increases from completed acquisitions, which accounted for $69.2 million of the overall increase in operating working capital. The increase in inventories was partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $751.9 million during 2009. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 is net of a $90 million payment related to a German tax dispute (see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information) and a $25 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan. The cash from operating activities, plus $22.9 million from redemption of short term investments and $20.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises was primarily used to fund debt repayments of $299.6 million, dividends of $167.4 million, capital expenditures of $126.7 million, acquisitions of $61.4 million, and share purchases of $38.5 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $896.4 million during 2008. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 includes the $141 million payment from the Federal Mogul bankruptcy estate partially offset by $60 million of voluntary contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as the related tax affect of these items. The cash from operating activities, plus $297.5 million of net proceeds from issuances of debt, $290.1 million of proceeds from cash previously restricted, $65.7 million from redemption of short term investments, and $17.1 million of cash received from stock option exercises, was primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $137.0 million, acquisitions of $297.0 million, dividends of $170.3 million, debt repayments of $397.2 million and share purchases of $517.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $795.3 million during 2007. This cash, plus an additional $190.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, net debt proceeds of $251.3 million, and $68.3 million of cash received from employee stock option exercise activity were primarily used to fund capital expenditures of $115.5 million, acquisitions of $336.1 million, dividends of $154.3 million, share purchases of $343.9 million, and $93.7 million in investments. In addition, Cooper used $290.1 million to fund a binding offer for all outstanding shares of MTL Instruments Group plc, a publicly traded company based in the United Kingdom that closed as expected in the first quarter of 2008. As discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Coopers contingent liabilities related to the Automotive Products sale to Federal Mogul in 1998 will continue to be resolved through the tort system. Cooper anticipates that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will average in the range of $20 to $30 million, although amounts will vary as the amount of the actual annual net cash outlay is not reasonably predictable. In 2009, insurance recoveries exceeded cash outlays due to negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009. Coopers financial position and liquidity has remained strong during the global economic recession. While the length and depth of the recession was more severe than predicted by most experts, Cooper proactively and aggressively adjusted its cost structure. In this regard, in the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper implemented contingency plans to reduce its cost structure and recognized a restructuring charge of $35.7 28 Table of Contents million primarily related to reductions in workforce in excess of 2,200 employees. During 2009, Cooper further reduced its workforce by approximately 1,900 additional employees and recognized restructuring charges of $28.7 million. Cash flows from operating activities in 2009 have been reduced by the $52.3 million expended in connection with the restructuring actions. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had a $6.1 million accrual related to these activities for which the related cash payments will be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. As part of the restructuring actions, Cooper approved the closure of ten factories and warehouses, eight of which were completed at the end of 2009. The two remaining factory closures are expected to be substantially completed in the first half of 2010. Cooper expects to incur incremental restructuring charges in the range of approximately $13 to $17 million associated with the completion of planned restructuring activities as the actions are completed in 2010. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. On November 2, 2009, Cooper repaid the $275 million 5.5% senior unsecured notes at maturity with existing cash. The decrease in the value of the assets included in Coopers defined benefit pension plans (Plans) resulting from the deterioration in the securities markets in 2008 was partially recovered in 2009. Cooper made voluntary cash contributions to the Plans of $60 million in December 2008 and an additional $25 million in September 2009. The change in fair value of the Plans, the cash contributions and the actuarial change in the benefit obligations has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in fair value of the Plans assets and other actuarial changes in 2009 will result in a decrease to total pension costs for 2010 of approximately $7.1 million as compared to total pension costs in 2009. During 2010, Cooper expects to pay in cash approximately $7.7 million for payment of unfunded pension plan benefits and make approximately $2.7 million in employer contributions to certain international funded defined benefit pension plans. Cooper does not expect to have any minimum regulatory funding requirement for its U.S. funded defined benefit pension plans in 2010. Cooper currently anticipates that it will annually generate in excess of $475 million in cash flow available for acquisitions, debt repayment, dividends and common stock repurchases in 2010. Debt At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Cooper had cash and cash equivalents of $381.6 million and $258.8 million, respectively and short term investments of $21.9 million at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Cooper had short term debt of $9.4 million and $25.6 million, respectively. Cooper had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2009 or 2008. On August 14, 2009 Cooper entered into a credit agreement that provides a $350 million three year committed bank credit facility that matures in August 2012 replacing Coopers previous credit facility that was to mature in November 2009. Coopers practice is to back up its short term debt balance with a combination of cash, cash equivalents, and committed credit facilities. Short term debt, to the extent not backed up by cash or short term investments, reduces the amount of additional liquidity provided by the committed credit facility. The credit facility agreement is not subject to termination based on a decrease in Coopers debt ratings or a material adverse change clause. The principal financial covenants in the agreement limits Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio to 60% and requires Cooper to maintain a minimum earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest ratio of 3 to 1. Cooper is in compliance with all covenants set forth in the credit facility agreement. Coopers access to the commercial paper market could be adversely affected by a change in the credit ratings assigned to its commercial paper. Should Coopers access to the commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in its credit ratings, Cooper would rely on a combination of available cash 29 Table of Contents and its committed credit facility to provide short term funding. The committed credit facility does not contain any provision, which makes their availability to Cooper dependent on Coopers credit ratings. On March 27, 2008, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of 5.45% fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2015. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay commercial paper outstanding at that time. Combined with the debt issuance discount, underwriting commissions and interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.56%. On June 18, 2007, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc. issued $300 million of 6.10% fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2017. Proceeds from the financing were used to repay $300 million of maturing 5.25% senior unsecured notes. Combined with interest rate hedges implemented in anticipation of the offering, the notes have an effective annual cost to Cooper of 5.75%. On November 8, 2005, Coopers wholly owned subsidiary, Cooper US, Inc., issued $325 million of 5.25% fixed rate senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2012. Proceeds of the notes were swapped to 272.6 million with cross currency interest rate swaps, effectively converting the seven year U.S. notes to seven year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million partially funded repayment of the 6.25% Euro bonds that matured in October 2005. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Cooper executes stand by letters of credit, performance bonds and other guarantees in the normal course of business that ensure Coopers performance or payments to third parties. The aggregate notional value of these instruments was $107.4 million and $107.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately eighty percent of these instruments have an expiration date within one year. In the past, no significant claims have been made against these financial instruments. Management believes the likelihood of demand for payment under these instruments is minimal and expects no material cash outlays to occur in connection with these instruments. The following table summarizes Coopers contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due Four to Less than One to Five After Total One Year Three Years Years Five Years Contractual Obligations: (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 927.3 $ 2.3 $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 Short Term Debt 9.4 9.4 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt 287.7 51.9 103.4 69.3 63.1 Noncancellable Operating Leases 102.5 26.6 36.7 16.3 22.9 Purchase Obligations 261.8 258.2 3.6 Other Long Term Liabilities (1), (2) 282.4 22.3 42.6 41.0 176.5 $ 1,871.1 $ 370.7 $ 511.3 $ 126.6 $ 862.5 (1) Includes unfunded other postretirement benefit obligations, unfunded defined benefit pension plan liabilities and environmental liabilities. Also includes liabilities for underfunded U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. (2) Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with Coopers unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, Cooper is unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $35.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. 30 Table of Contents Capitalization On February 12, 2008, Coopers Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to ten million shares of common stock. On February 9, 2009, Coopers Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by ten million shares. At December 31, 2009, 12,472,035 shares remained available to purchase under these authorizations. Cooper has also announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of shares issued from time to time under its equity compensation plans, matched savings plan and dividend reinvestment plan in order to offset the dilution that results from issuing shares under these plans. For 2010, Coopers current estimate is that 2.5 million shares would be issued under equity compensation plans. As of the date of this filing in 2010, Cooper had repurchased 589,600 shares under the Board of Director authorizations discussed above. Cooper may continue to repurchase shares under these authorizations from time to time during 2010. The decision whether to do so will be dependent on the favorability of market conditions, as well as potential cash requirements for acquisitions and debt repayments. Cooper targets a 30% to 40% debt to total capitalization ratio. Excess cash flows are utilized to fund acquisitions or to purchase shares of Cooper common stock. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Coopers debt to total capitalization ratio was 24.0%, 32.1% and 30.8%, respectively. On February 12, 2008, Cooper announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock by $.16 per share to $1.00 per share. On February 15, 2010, Coopers Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.27 per share increasing the annual dividend rate of Coopers common stock to $1.08 per share. Capital Expenditures and Commitments Capital expenditures on projects to reduce product costs, improve product quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and operating flexibility, or expand production capacity were $127 million in 2009, $137 million in 2008, and $116 million in 2007. Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $110 to $120 million in 2010. Projected expenditures for 2010 will focus on capacity expansions in key markets, development of new products and cost reduction programs. 31 Table of Contents Interest Rate, Currency and Commodity Price Risk Changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. As a result of having sales, purchases and certain intercompany transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies used by Coopers businesses, Cooper is exposed to the effect of exchange rate changes on its cash flows and earnings. Cooper enters into currency forward exchange contracts to hedge significant non functional currency denominated transactions for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions. Contracts generally have maturities that do not exceed one year. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2009 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates in effect during the periods presented. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ $ 600.0 $ 927.3 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of approximately 3.5%. The table below provides information about Coopers derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments at December 31, 2008 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and weighted average interest rates. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Long term debt: Fixed rate (U.S. Dollar) $ 275.0 $ 2.3 $ $ 325.0 $ $ 600.0 $ 1,202.3 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.8 % Variable rate (U.S. Dollar) $ $ $ $ $ $ 8.0 $ 8.0 Average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % Cross currency swaps: Fixed to fixed: Notional amount (1) $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ 325.0 $ $ $ 325.0 Average pay rate 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % Average receive rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % (1) Cooper entered into cross currency swaps to effectively convert $325 million of 5.25% senior unsecured debt due in November 2012 to 272.6 million with an annual interest rate of approximately 3.5%. 32 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2009. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. Mature in Mature in 2010 2011 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 42.9 $ 352.9 Average contract rate 1.724 1.910 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 147.2 $ 170.7 Average contract rate 1.627 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 348.2 Average contract rate 1.446 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Euro Notional amount $ 92.5 Average contract rate 1.385 Canadian Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Canadian Dollars Notional amount $ 41.2 Average contract rate .922 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 16.0 Average contract rate .722 Changes in availability and fluctuations in commodity prices for raw materials such as steel, copper, aluminum and zinc affect Coopers earnings and cash flows. Cooper primarily manages this exposure through price changes; however, in periods of significant increases in commodity prices, the price increases in certain businesses, on occasion, lag the increased costs. Cooper also uses commodity swaps to reduce the volatility of price fluctuations on a portion of certain forecasted material purchases for copper, aluminum and zinc for periods up to eighteen months. At December 31, 2009, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $15 million, all of which mature in 2010. At December 31, 2008, Cooper had commodity swaps with a notional amount of approximately $68 million, 90% of which matured in 2009. The table below provides information about Coopers currency forward exchange contracts to purchase currencies in excess of $10 million at December 31, 2008. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual payments exchanged under the contracts. The notional amount represents the U.S. dollar equivalent. 33 Table of Contents Mature in Mature in 2009 2010 2011 Mature in 2012 (in millions, where applicable) U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy U.S. Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 111.5 $ 48.4 $ 328.8 Average contract rate 1.648 1.921 1.909 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Great Britain Pounds / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 11.9 $ 23.5 $ 159.0 Average contract rate 1.894 1.864 1.847 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 148.9 Average contract rate 1.286 Euro Functional Currency Buy Euro / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 49.8 Average contract rate 1.209 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Mexican Pesos / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 44.7 Average contract rate .079 U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Buy Singapore Dollars / Sell U.S. Dollars Notional amount $ 22.5 Average contract rate .675 Australian Dollar Functional Currency Buy Australian Dollars / Sell Great Britain Pounds Notional amount $ 13.5 Average contract rate 1.122 See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of Coopers financial instruments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain information that is pertinent to managements discussion and analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Cooper believes the following critical accounting policies involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related asset and liability amounts. Cooper recognizes revenues when products are shipped, and accruals for sales returns and other allowances are provided at the time of shipment based upon past experience. If actual future returns and allowances differ from past experience, additional allowances may be required. The accrual for sales returns 34 Table of Contents and other allowances reported net in receivables was $77.9 million and $89.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cooper provides certain customers incentives primarily consisting of volume discounts and other short term discount and promotion programs. Cooper recognizes these incentives as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of the qualifying sale based on our estimate of the ultimate incentive amount to be earned using historical experience and known trends. If actual customer incentives differ from our estimates, additional accruals may be required. The accrual for customer incentives reported in accrued liabilities was $70.2 million and $108.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Allowances for excess and obsolete inventory are provided based on current assessments about future demands, market conditions and related management initiatives. If market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may be required. The allowance for excess and obsolete inventory was $83.7 million at December 31, 2009 and $77.0 million at December 31, 2008. Pension assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, discount rates and estimated future employee earnings and demographics. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. Differences between actuarial assumptions and estimates and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a calculated minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of active employees. Total net periodic pension benefit cost was $26.1 million in 2009, $7.6 million in 2008 and $3.9 million in 2007. The increase in the net periodic pension cost in 2009 resulted from a decline in fair value of the plan assets and other actuarial changes related to the deterioration in the securities markets in 2008. Total net periodic pension benefit cost in 2008 includes a $3.7 million curtailment loss as a result of ceasing future benefit accruals for two defined benefit plans in the U.K. The estimated net periodic pension benefit cost of $19.0 million for 2010 has been estimated assuming a discount rate of 5.5% and an expected return on plan assets of 8.25%. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The postretirement benefits other than pensions liability is also determined on an actuarial basis and is affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs will affect the recorded amount of postretirement benefits expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are deferred in accumulated other nonowner changes in equity as actuarial net gains and losses. Actuarial net gains and losses in excess of a minimum annual amount are amortized and recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the participants. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost was ($0.4) million in 2009 and $0.7 million in 2008. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost is expected to be approximately $0.7 million in 2010, assuming a discount rate of 5.5%. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock based compensation expense is recorded for stock option grants, performance based and restricted stock awards based upon fair value. The fair value of stock option awards is estimated at the grant date using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions for volatility, expected term, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Cooper stock, historical volatility of Cooper stock and other factors. Historical data is used to estimate employee termination experience and the expected term of the options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The fair value of performance based and restricted stock awards granted is measured at the market price on the grant date. Performance awards are typically arranged in levels, with increasing number of shares earned as higher levels of growth are achieved. If goal level assumptions are not met, stock based compensation expense is adjusted and previously recognized compensation expense would be reversed. During 2007 and through the 35 Table of Contents third quarter of 2008, performance goals were assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Cooper revised its assumption to lower the performance goals assumed to be achieved to below the maximum level for performance awards granted in 2007 and 2008. The revised achievement levels assumed for the 2007 and 2008 performance award grants considered the past performance and current expectations of future performance in the respective three year performance period. As a result of lowering the performance goals assumed to be achieved, Cooper adjusted previously recognized stock based compensation expense by reducing operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008 by $11.3 million. Performance goals for performance awards granted in 2009 are assumed to be achieved at the maximum level. Total stock based compensation expense was $26.3 million in 2009, $23.1 million in 2008 and $39.0 million in 2007. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by Cooper and third party sites where Cooper was determined to be a potentially responsible party. Third party sites frequently involve multiple potentially responsible parties and Coopers potential liability is determined based on estimates of Coopers proportionate responsibility for the total cleanup. The amounts accrued for such sites are based on these estimates as well as an assessment of the financial capacity of the other potentially responsible parties. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, Coopers estimate of its environmental liabilities may change. The liability for environmental remediation was $27.1 million at December 31, 2009 and $29.4 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper records current tax liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities for those taxes incurred as a result of current operations but deferred until future periods. The annual provision for income taxes is the sum of both the current and deferred tax amounts. Current taxes payable represents the liability related to Coopers income tax returns for the current year, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on Coopers consolidated balance sheet. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon differences between the book basis of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis as measured by the enacted tax rates that Cooper expects will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future applicable tax rates, Cooper must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Cooper has established valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Cooper is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous non U.S. jurisdictions. Cooper is regularly under examination by various tax authorities. United States federal and state tax authorities and tax authorities in other countries have challenged the amount of taxes due for certain tax periods. Cooper evaluates the potential exposure associated with various filing positions and records a liability for tax contingencies. Although Cooper believes all tax positions are reasonable and properly reported in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the periods involved, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. The resolution of tax audits and litigation could have a material effect on Coopers consolidated cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is finalized. In 2009 and 2008, Cooper reduced income tax expense by $12.7 million ($.08 per share) and $23.2 million ($.13 per share), respectively, as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations, tax settlements and other discrete tax items. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cooper has goodwill of $2.64 billion and $2.57 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Cooper records goodwill related to business acquisitions when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test and Cooper has designated January 1 as the date of this test. If an event occurs, or circumstances change, that 36 Table of Contents would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value; an interim impairment test would be performed between annual tests. Cooper has identified eight reporting units, consisting of seven units in the Electrical Products reportable operating segment plus the Tools reportable operating segment, for which goodwill is tested for impairment. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed. The second step compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill to the carrying amount of its goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination (e.g., the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit). The primary technique we utilize in estimating the fair value of our reporting units is discounted cash flow analysis. Discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgments, estimates and assumptions, many of which are interdependent, about future sales, operating margins, growth rates, capital expenditures, working capital and discount rates. In addition to estimating the fair value of each of our reporting units using discounted cash flow analysis, we compare the sum of the fair values of our reporting units that resulted from the discounted cash flow analysis to our market capitalization to determine that our estimates of reporting unit fair value are reasonable. The starting point for the assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis is the annual long range financial forecast. The annual planning process that we undertake to prepare the long range financial forecast takes into consideration a multitude of factors including historical growth rates and operating performance, related industry trends, macroeconomic conditions, inflationary and deflationary forces, pricing strategies, customer analysis, operational issues, competitor analysis, customer needs and marketplace data, among others. Assumptions are also made for perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long range financial forecast period. Our estimates of fair value are sensitive to changes in all of these variables, certain of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside our control. The long range financial forecast is typically completed early in the fourth quarter of each year, and it serves as the primary basis for our estimate of reporting unit fair values used in our annual impairment tests, absent significant changes in our outlook on future results. In determining the fair value of our reporting units at January 1, 2010, we were required to make significant judgments and estimates regarding the expected recovery from the recent global economic recession. The forecast assumptions for 2010 include a recovery to begin in certain markets and realization of benefits from our 2008 and 2009 cost reduction actions to reduce our overall cost structure. We forecasted revenues for all but one of the Electrical Products reporting units to increase in 2010 in the range of 1% to 8% with an average net increase of 1%. We projected a compounded annual growth rate in the mid single digits through 2012 for Electrical Products. We forecasted Tools revenues to increase in 2010 by 9% with a projected compounded annual growth rate in the mid single digits through 2012. In developing our forecast, we considered the historical operating results achieved and the future outlook in each of our businesses. While Electrical Products revenue declined in 2009 by 22% due to the global economic recession, over the three year period through 2008, Electrical Products revenues increased annually in the range of 11% to 15%. Tools revenues increased approximately 4% in 2006 and 5% in 2007 and declined approximately 4% in 2008 and 27% in 2009. During the five year period through 2009, Cooper achieved compounded annual growth in earnings from continuing operations of approximately 5% (2005 15%; 2006 24%; 2007 20%; 2008 8%; 2009 33% decline) and free cash flow in excess of recurring earnings from continuing operations in each year. We estimate a 3% annual growth rate beyond 2012 to arrive at a normalized residual year representing the perpetual cash flows of each reporting unit. The forecasted 3% annual growth rate is less than Coopers historical compounded annual growth rate achieved through 2009 for the prior five year period 37 Table of Contents and is consistent with the historical compounded annual growth rate over the prior ten year period. The residual year cash flow was capitalized to arrive at the terminal value for each of the reporting units. Utilizing a discount rate of 11% for each reporting unit in the Electrical Products segment and 11.5% for the Tools reporting unit, the present value of the cash flows during the projection period and terminal value were aggregated to estimate the fair value for each of the reporting units. We assumed a discount rate of 11% in our discounted cash flow analysis at January 1, 2009 for each of our reporting units. In determining the appropriate discount rate, we considered the weighted average cost of capital for market participants. Due to the effects of the global economic recession on our operations, we determined that the excess fair value for each of our reporting units over its carrying value as of January 1, 2010 was generally consistent with such excess as of January 1, 2009, although the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeded carrying value was smaller than it was prior to the downturn in the global economy in the latter half of 2008. If the recovery from the recent global economic recession takes longer than we have projected or the economic environment worsens, the estimated fair values of our reporting units could decrease. The following table provides information for each of Coopers eight reporting units. $ in millions Percentage Reduction Fair Value Fair Value Required to in Excess in Excess Reduce 1/1/10 of Carrying of Carrying Estimated Fair Goodwill at Value at Goodwill at Value at Value to Reporting Unit 12/31/08 (2) 1/1/09 (1) 12/31/09 (2) 1/1/10 (1) Carrying Value B Line $ 303.4 88 % $ 304.2 93 % 48 % Bussmann 337.8 65 % 333.8 61 % 38 % Crouse Hinds 362.8 192 % 390.2 273 % 73 % Lighting 362.1 93 % 375.7 91 % 48 % Wiring Devices 82.7 72 % 79.8 51 % 34 % Power Systems 443.1 85 % 446.1 81 % 45 % Safety 374.0 35 % 408.5 31 % 24 % Tools 301.4 35 % 304.9 32 % 24 % (1) Expressed as a percentage of carrying value. (2) There were no changes in the allocation of goodwill between reporting units. The changes in goodwill are due to the effect of acquisitions and translation. In addition to estimating the fair value of each of our reporting units using the discounted cash flow analysis as described above, we compared the sum of the fair values of our reporting units that resulted from the discounted cash flow analysis to our market capitalization to determine that our estimates of reporting unit fair value were reasonable. As of December 31, 2009, our equity market capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion, compared to the $3.0 billion book value of equity. As of December 31, 2008, our equity market capitalization was approximately $5.1 billion, compared to the $2.6 billion book value of equity. The above table reflects the percentage reduction in estimated fair value required to reduce the stated fair value estimates to the respective reporting units carrying value at January 1, 2010. To evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations and to address the uncertainty inherent in estimating the fair values of our reporting units, we applied a range of discount rates and long term cash flow growth assumptions. Discount rates applied ranged from 9% to 13% with long term cash flow growth assumptions ranging from 2% to 4%. Under this range of assumptions, only one scenario would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value (with the fair value approximately 2% below its carrying value). If the projected recovery from the global economic recession is significantly delayed beyond our projections, it is possible 38 Table of Contents the estimated fair values of certain reporting units could decrease such that the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be completed. There are significant inherent uncertainties and management judgment involved in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, it is possible that a material change could occur. If actual results are not consistent with our current estimates and assumptions, or if changes in macroeconomic conditions outside the control of management change such that it results in a significant negative impact on our estimated fair values, we may be required to perform the second step of the impairment test for one or more of our reporting units, which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill. In October 1998, Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to Federal Mogul Corporation (Federal Mogul). These discontinued businesses (including the Abex Friction product line obtained from Pneumo Abex Corporation (Pneumo) in 1994) were operated through subsidiary companies, and the stock of those subsidiaries was sold to Federal Mogul pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 17, 1998 (1998 Agreement). In conjunction with the sale, Federal Mogul indemnified Cooper for certain liabilities of these subsidiary companies, including liabilities related to the Abex Friction product line and any potential liability that Cooper may have to Pneumo pursuant to a 1994 Mutual Guaranty Agreement between Cooper and Pneumo. On October 1, 2001, Federal Mogul and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition. The Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Federal Moguls plan of reorganization and Federal Mogul emerged from bankruptcy in December 2007. As part of Federal Moguls Plan of Reorganization, Cooper and Federal Mogul reached a settlement agreement that was subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court resolving Federal Moguls indemnification obligations to Cooper. As discussed further in Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on September 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its final ruling denying the Modified Plan A Settlement resulting in Cooper not participating in the Federal Mogul 524(g) trust and instead proceeding with the Plan B Settlement that had previously been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Plan B Settlement, Cooper received in October 2008 the $141 million payment, including interest, from the Federal Mogul Bankruptcy estate and continues to resolve through the tort system the asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line that it had sold to Federal Mogul in 1998. As part of its obligation to Pneumo for any asbestos related claims arising from the Abex Friction product line (Abex Claims), Cooper has rights, confirmed by Pneumo, to significant insurance for such claims. As a result of the September 30, 2008 Bankruptcy Court ruling discussed above, Cooper adjusted its accounting in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the separate assets and liabilities related to the on going activities to resolve the potential asbestos related claims through the tort system. Cooper recorded income from discontinued operations of $16.6 million, net of a $9.4 million income tax expense, in the third quarter of 2008 to reflect the Plan B Settlement. During 2009, Cooper recognized an after tax gain from discontinued operations of $25.5 million, which is net of a $16.2 million income tax expense, from negotiated insurance settlements consummated in 2009 that were not previously recognized. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. Timing and value of these agreements and settlements cannot be currently estimated as they may be subject to extensive additional negotiation and litigation. Asbestos Liability Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper estimates that the undiscounted liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs for the next 45 years will be $784.5 million. This amount includes accruals for unpaid indemnity and defense costs at December 31, 2009 which are not significant. The estimated liability is before any tax benefit and is not discounted as the timing of the actual payments is not reasonably predictable. However, a discounted value would likely be approximately 60% or less of the $784.5 million liability recorded. 39 Table of Contents The methodology used to project Coopers liability estimate relies upon a number of assumptions including Coopers recent claims experience and declining future asbestos spending based on past trends and publicly available epidemiological data, changes in various jurisdictions, managements judgment about the current and future litigation environment, and the availability to claimants of other payment sources. Abex discontinued using asbestos in the Abex Friction product line in the 1970s and epidemiological studies that are publicly available indicate the incidence of asbestos related disease is in decline and should continue to decline steadily. However, these studies, or other assumptions, may vary significantly over time from the current estimates utilized to project the undiscounted liability. Although Cooper believes that its estimated liability for pending and future indemnity and defense costs represents the best estimate of its future obligation, Cooper utilized scenarios that it believes are reasonably possible that indicate a broader range of potential estimates from $505 to $877 million (undiscounted). Asbestos Receivable Estimate As of December 31, 2009, Cooper, through Pneumo Abex LLC, has access to Abex insurance policies with remaining limits on policies with solvent insurers in excess of $680 million. Insurance recoveries reflected as receivables in the balance sheet include recoveries where insurance in place agreements, settlements or policy recoveries are probable. As of December 31, 2009, Coopers receivable for recoveries of costs from insurers amounted to $179.3 million, of which $64.6 million relate to costs previously paid or insurance settlements. Coopers arrangements with the insurance carriers may defer certain amounts of insurance and settlement proceeds that Cooper is entitled to receive beyond twelve months. Approximately 90% of the $179.3 million receivable from insurance companies at December 31, 2009 is due from domestic insurers whose AM Best rating is Excellent (A ) or better. The remaining balance of the insurance receivable has been significantly discounted to reflect managements best estimate of the recoverable amount. Cooper believes that it is likely that additional insurance recoveries will be recorded in the future as new insurance in place agreements are consummated or settlements with insurance carriers are completed. However, extensive litigation with the insurance carriers may be required to receive those additional recoveries. The amounts recorded by Cooper for its asbestos liability and related insurance receivables are not discounted and rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and strategy. The value of the liability on a discounted basis net of the amount of insurance recoveries likely to materialize in the future would be significantly lower than the net amounts currently recognized in the balance sheet. Coopers actual asbestos costs or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the estimation process vary significantly from actual results over time. As the estimated liability is not discounted and extends over 45 years, any changes in key assumptions could have a significant impact on the recorded liability. Key variables in these assumptions include the number and type of new claims filed each year, the average indemnity and defense costs of resolving claims, the number of years these assumptions are projected into the future, and the resolution of on going negotiations of additional settlement or coverage in place agreements with insurance carriers. Assumptions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Other factors that may affect Coopers liability and ability to recover under its insurance policies include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms that may be made by state and federal courts, and the passage of state or federal tort reform legislation. Cooper will review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to the estimate of its recorded asbestos liability and related insurance receivables. As this additional information becomes available, Cooper could record a charge or income related to the discontinued operations asbestos liability and related insurance recoveries, which may be significant. From a cash flow perspective, Cooper management believes that the annual cash outlay for its potential asbestos liability, net of insurance recoveries, will not be material to Coopers operating cash flow. 40 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this Item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
 
