FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20040928084227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On September 27, 2004, Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") committed to productivity improvement plans aimed at improving the ability of the Company to meet customer demands and reducing operating costs. The productivity plans are designed to adjust our workforce to align it with the Company's focus on seamless mobility and to eliminate positions in our corporate functions in connection with the pending distribution of shares of our subsidiary, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., to our stockholders by the end of the year. These plans effect approximately 1,000 employees and result in pre-tax charges totaling approximately $50 million in severance benefits. Businesses impacted by these plans include the Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions segment, the Integrated Electronic Systems segment and the Broadband Communications segment, as well as various corporate functions. The Company anticipates that these severance benefits will be paid beginning in the third quarter of 2004 through the first quarter of 2005.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On September 27, 2004, the Company sold shares of Nextel Communications, Inc. and Nextel Partners, Inc. for aggregate proceeds of approximately $218 million resulting in a gain to Motorola.
 
In the third quarter, the Company anticipates the following additional pre-tax charges:
 
(a) approximately $80 million of net costs relating to the early extinguishment of the following debt:
 
(i) the remarketing completed on August 16, 2004 of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.5% Senior Notes due 2007, which notes were issued in October and November 2001 in connection with our issuance and sale to the public of our equity security units (no cash proceeds were received from the remarketing);
 
(ii) our retirement of approximately $1.6 billion of outstanding debt, as described below:
 
 
 
(b) additional separation costs incurred during the third quarter by our Freescale Semiconductor subsidiary.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


