FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20050419145507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     The Compensation and Leadership Committee ("Compensation Committee") of the Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") Board of Directors approved on March 28, 2005, the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2005 ("LRIP") which is effective as of January 1, 2005. The LRIP is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.43. Below is a summary of the LRIP, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the LRIP.
     The LRIP has been established to encourage outstanding individuals to serve as officers of Motorola or a Subsidiary (as defined under LRIP) and to furnish those officers maximum incentive to improve operations and increase profits. The LRIP is based on successive multi-year performance cycles. The first cycle which covers a three-year performance period commenced January 1, 2005. The LRIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 ("2003 Plan").
     Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents and other officers recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Compensation Committee are eligible to participate in the LRIP. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) may also be eligible to participate as approved by the Compensation Committee.
     A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance period based on a percentage of the participant's base pay in effect at that time. A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his or her target award. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated performance goals relating to cumulative improvement in economic profit and cumulative sales growth during each performance period. Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during the entire performance cycle, or a combination of both. Awards may be subject to partial forfeiture if Motorola's total shareholder return for the entire performance cycle does not exceed the median total shareholder return for the performance cycle for a defined comparator group. Awards will be calculated after the close of each performance cycle on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in shares of Motorola common stock as soon as administratively practicable following the close of a performance period. The Motorola shares will be issued under the 2003 Plan or such other shareholder approved Motorola equity-based incentive plan, as designated by the Committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10.43
ELIGIBILITY
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents and other officers of Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") or a Subsidiary, as recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors ("Committee"), are eligible to participate in the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2005 (the "Plan"). The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee.
PARTICIPATION
Generally, officers who become eligible to participate during the first quarter of a performance cycle will participate in a full multi-year performance cycle. The participation of officers who are promoted, newly hired or demoted after the first quarter of a performance cycle shall be at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer.
OVERVIEW
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 ("Omnibus Plan"). Here is an overview of the Plan:
 
SITUATIONS AFFECTING THE PLAN
 
 
(i) Retiring at or after age 55 with 20 years of service;
(ii) Retiring at or after age 60 with 10 years of service;
(iii) Retiring at or after age 65, without regard to years of service;
(iv) Retiring with any other combination of age and service, at the discretion of the Committee.
Years of service will be based on the participant's Service Club Date.
DEFINITION OF TERMS
"Subsidiary" means an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes. "Serious Misconduct" means any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures. If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
 
RESERVATION AND RETENTION OF COMPANY RIGHTS
GOVERNANCE
It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, and TERMINATION
The Committee may amend, modify, or terminate the Plan and the terms applicable to any performance cycle at any time; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
 


