FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20051118114903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Director Compensation
     The form and amount of compensation paid to Motorola's non-employee directors is reviewed from time to time by the Nominating and Governance Committee ("Nominating Committee") of Motorola's Board of Directors ("Board") with input from the Compensation and Leadership Committee ("Compensation Committee") of the Board regarding market trends relating to director compensation. The last increase in Board compensation was effective as of January 1, 2003.
     On November 15, 2005, upon the recommendation of the Nominating Committee, the Board approved changes to the equity and cash compensation of the non-employee directors, effective as of January 1, 2006. The changes are described below.
 
 
     
Amendment of Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2005
     On November 15, 2005, the Compensation Committee amended the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2005, as amended, ("LRIP") to authorize pro-rated participation for newly elected officers and for the pro-ration of target awards for participants whose elected officer level changes or is eliminated through promotion or reclassification. The LRIP as now amended is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.43 and the summary of the amendments to the LRIP described herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the LRIP.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following are filed as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.43
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents ("Officers") of Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") or a Subsidiary, as recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors ("Committee"), are eligible to participate in the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2005 (the "Plan"). The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee.
ELIGIBILITY
Generally, Officers who become eligible to participate during the first quarter of a performance cycle will participate in a full multi-year performance cycle. Officers who become eligible to participate after the first quarter of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a pro rata basis, except that Officers who become eligible to participate during the last quarter of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
PARTICIPATION
Participants who lose their eligibility to participate as a result of the lapse of status as an elected officer after the first quarter of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a pro rata basis if the employment of the participant continues through the last day of the performance cycle. Participants who lose their eligibility to participate in the first quarter of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
Pro rata awards will be determined on the basis of the number of completed months of employment as an elected officer within the performance cycle.
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 ("Omnibus Plan"). Here is an overview of the Plan:
OVERVIEW
 
 
SITUATIONS AFFECTING THE PLAN
 
 
"Subsidiary" means an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
DEFINITION OF TERMS
"Serious Misconduct" means any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
RESERVATION AND RETENTION OF COMPANY RIGHTS
 
It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
GOVERNANCE
The Committee may amend, modify, or terminate the Plan and the terms applicable to any performance cycle at any time; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced.
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, and TERMINATION
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS


