FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20050218172152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Stock Option Grant
     On February 14, 2005, the independent directors of the Board of Directors of Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola" or the "Company") approved a grant of options to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock under the Company's Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 for Edward J. Zander, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The options have an option exercise price of $15.91 per share, the closing price for a share of the Company's common stock on the last trading day before the date of grant, as reported for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions in the Wall Street Journal, Midwest edition. The options are exercisable in four equal annual installments beginning on February 14, 2006 and the expiration date of the options, subject to certain conditions, is February 14, 2015. A copy of the Award Document for this stock option grant is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein. As a condition of accepting these stock options a Stock Option Consideration Agreement, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 10.2, must be executed.
Compensation Committee Approvals
     On February 14, 2005, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company took the following actions:
     
Approval of 2005 Base Salary
     The Compensation Committee approved, effective April 11, 2005, the following base salaries for the executive officers who will be the "named executive officers" for purposes of the Company's proxy statement for the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders.
Table of Contents
     
Approval of Motorola 2005 Incentive Plan
     The Compensation Committee approved the Motorola 2005 Incentive Plan ("MIP") which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.3 Below is a summary of the MIP, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the MIP
     The MIP has been established to retain employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward employees for strong business performance. The MIP is based on successive calendar year performance periods commencing January 1, 2005. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003.
     All full-time or part-time Motorola employees in participating organizations and on the payroll of a participating country, other than participants in other annual group incentive or bonus plans, may participate in the MIP. The named executive officers may participate in the MIP.
     A target award is established for each participant at the beginning of a plan year based on a percentage of the participant's eligible earnings. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated business performance goals and individual performance goals determined by the Compensation Committee. Business performance will be measured with respect to operating earnings, operating cash flow, revenue growth, quality and such other factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee. Awards will be calculated after the close of each plan year on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable following the close of a plan year.
     
Approval of Separation and Release Agreement
     On January 12, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that Mike S. Zafirovski, President and Chief Operating Officer, would resign from his officer positions effective January 31, 2005 and would not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors in May 2005. In connection with Mr. Zafirovski's separation, a Separation and Release Agreement was approved by the Compensation Committee and executed by the Company and Mr. Zafirovski on February 15, 2005 (the "Separation Agreement").
     The Separation Agreement provides that Mr. Zafirovski (i) will continue to receive his base salary until July 29, 2005, Mr. Zafirovski's separation date as an employee of Motorola (the "Separation Date"), totaling $468,000; (ii) will continue to participate in Motorola's benefit plans at his current levels until the Separation Date, except that Motorola will provide health benefits and office and administrative services through December 31, 2005 and company-paid financial planning and tax preparation services through his tax filing for the 2005 tax year; and (iii) will be reimbursed up to $25,000 for the attorney fees he incurred in connection with the Separation Agreement. Mr. Zafirovski will not receive executive perquisites after January 31, 2005. Other than the bonuses fully earned prior to Mr. Zafirovski's resignation for the 2004 Motorola Incentive Plan and Motorola's 2003-2004 Mid-Range Incentive Plan (MRIP), as amended, which will be paid in accordance with the terms of each such plan, Mr. Zafirovski will no longer participate in the MIP, the MRIP or any annual, mid-range or long range bonus plan thereafter, including for the 2004-2005 MRIP performance cycle.
     On February 15, 2005, Mr. Zafirovski held stock options for 3,855,720 shares of common stock ranging in exercise prices of $7.2745 to $27.2996 of which options for 1,760,220 shares were vested. As part of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Zafirovski will have until the earlier of the expiration of the
Table of Contents
options or one year from the Separation Date to exercise all of the vested options. In addition, 300,000 shares of restricted stock granted on May 10, 2000 to Mr. Zafirovski will vest on the Separation Date pursuant to the terms of the original grant. Mr. Zafirovski forfeited all rights to unvested stock options for 1,341,120 shares of common stock and 965,117 shares of unvested restricted stock.
     In addition to the amounts described above, under the terms of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Zafirovski will receive a separation allowance of $16,839,290 (the "Separation Allowance"), which amount includes a lump sum payout equal to $4,000,000, plus accrued interest at 7% per annum. Motorola committed, at the time of Mr. Zafirovski's employment, to make this lump sum payout to replace the supplemental retirement benefits Mr. Zafirovski had accrued with his former employer and forfeited to join Motorola. The Separation Allowance is payable by Motorola following the Separation Date within 30 days of Mr. Zafirovski's delivery of a supplemental general liability release.
     Motorola has agreed that in the event of Mr. Zafirovski's death prior to his separation, his spouse will be entitled to his unpaid salary through the Separation Date and 2004 bonuses, the Separation Allowance and other equity and benefits to the extent permitted under the applicable plans and/or equity agreements.
     Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Zafirovski provides Motorola a general liability release of all claims arising out of his employment and separation from Motorola.
     The foregoing description of the terms of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
     Pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, the compensation arrangements between the Company and Mr. Zafirovski that were described in Exhibit 10.4 to Motorola's Form 10-Q filed for the period ended September 28, 2002 were superceded and nullified effective February 15, 2005.
Item 5.03 Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     On February 15, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to Article V of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company dated May 4, 2004, to revise how elected officers are chosen. In lieu of the specified list of officer positions contained in the previous Bylaws, the revised Bylaws allow the Board of Directors to designate by resolution the officer positions to be elected directly by the Board of Directors or to be elected in any other manner as the Board of Directors may determine. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 3 (ii) to this report and can also be found on the corporate governance page of the Motorola website at www.motorola.com/investor.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) The following are filed as Exhibits to this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3(ii)
Revised as of February 15, 2005
     The registered office of the Corporation required by the Delaware General Corporation Law shall be 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, and the address of the registered office may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
     The principal place of business of the Corporation shall be located in the Village of Schaumburg, County of Cook, State of Illinois, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Illinois, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may require from time to time.
     The registered office of the Corporation for qualification as a foreign corporation under the Illinois Business Corporation Act may be, but need not be, the same as its principal place of business in the State of Illinois, and the address of the registered office may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
     The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the state of incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal".
 
     Section 1. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by, or under the direction of, its Board of Directors.
     Section 2. Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be sixteen, or such other number fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, provided however, that the Board of Directors shall at no time consist of fewer than three directors. Each director shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death or resignation.
     Section 3. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office although less than a quorum, for the remainder of the unexpired term and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal, with or without cause; provided that in lieu of filling a vacancy, the Board of Directors may reduce the number of directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article II.
     Section 4. Compensation. Directors who also are employees of the Corporation shall not receive any additional compensation for services provided as a member of the Board of Directors. The non-employee directors shall be entitled to receive pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors, fixed fees or other compensation for their services as directors, including committee fees. In addition, reimbursement of travel and other expenses incurred for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors or in connection with their other services to the Corporation may be permitted. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
     Section 5. Committees of Directors. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more
 
committees. Each committee shall consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation, as selected by the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors shall also designate a chairman of each committee. The members of each committee shall designate a person to act as secretary of the committee to keep the minutes of, and serve the notices for, all meetings of the committee and perform such other duties as the committee may direct. Such person may, but need not be a member of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors of the Corporation as alternate members of any such committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member or members at any meeting of such committee. Any such committee may be abolished or re-designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Each member (and each alternate member) of any such committee (whether designated at an annual meeting of the Board of Directors, or to fill a vacancy, or otherwise) shall serve as a member of such committee until his or her successor shall have been designated or until he or she shall cease to be a director, or until his or her resignation or removal, with or without cause, from such committee. Each committee, except as otherwise provided in this section, shall have and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors as may be provided by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, however, no committee shall have the power of authority: (1) to approve or adopt, or recommend to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the Delaware General Corporation Law to be submitted to the stockholders for approval; or (2) to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation. Any committee may be granted by the Board of Directors power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to any or all papers that may require it. Each committee of the Board of Directors may establish its own rules of procedure. Except as otherwise specified in a resolution designating a committee, one-third of the members of a committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum of that committee for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of committee members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.
     Section 6. Validity of Contracts. No contract or other transaction entered into by the Corporation shall be affected by the fact that a director or officer of the
 
Corporation is in any way interested in or connected with any party to such contract or transaction, or himself is a party to such contract or transaction, even though in the case of a director the vote of the director having such interest or connection shall have been necessary to obligate the Corporation upon such contract or transaction; provided, however, that in any such case (i) the material facts of such interest are known or disclosed to the directors or stockholders and the contract or transaction is authorized or approved in good faith by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof through the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors (even though not a quorum), or (ii) the contract or transaction is fair to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the stockholders, or by the Board of Directors, or by a committee thereof.
     Section 1. Place of Meetings. The Board of Directors may designate any place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting called by the Board of Directors. If no designation is made, or if a special meeting be otherwise called, the place of meeting shall be the principal place of business of the Corporation in the State of Illinois.
     Section 2. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held on the first Monday in the month of May in each year, at the hour of 5:00 o'clock P.M., or at such other day and hour as may be fixed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting. If the day fixed for the annual meeting shall be a legal holiday in the state where the meeting is to be held, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein for the annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of the stockholders as soon thereafter as is convenient.
 
     Section 3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors.
     Section 4. Voting  Quorum. Subject to Section 11 of this Article III, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders, except to the extent that the voting rights of any class or classes are enlarged, limited or denied by the Certificate of Incorporation or in the manner therein provided. A majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders, except that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors, except as otherwise required by Delaware law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws. No matter shall be considered at a meeting of stockholders except upon a motion duly made and seconded. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented at a meeting, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
     Section 5. Adjournment of Meetings. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented at a meeting of the stockholders, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair (as described in Section 14 of this Article III) may adjourn a meeting of the stockholders from time to time without further notice, whether or not a quorum is present at the meeting. No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. In no event shall a public notice of an adjournment of any meeting of the stockholders commence a new time period for the giving of stockholder notice of nominations or proposals for other business as described in Section 13 of Article III. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be
 
present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
     Section 6. Proxies. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing or submitted by electronic transmission by the stockholder or by the stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact. No proxy shall be valid after three years from the date of its execution, unless otherwise expressly provided in the proxy.
     Section 7. Notice of Meetings. Written notice stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than ten days (twenty days if the stockholders are to approve a merger or consolidation or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all the Corporation's assets) nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary, or the officer or persons calling the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. The notice provisions of Article IX, Section 1 of these Bylaws shall apply to notices given under this Section 7.
     Section 8. Postponement of Meetings. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of the stockholders. In no event shall public notice of a postponement of any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders commence a new time period for the giving of stockholder notice of nominations or proposals for other business as described in Section 13 of Article III.
     Section 9. Cancellation of Meetings. Any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of the stockholders.
     Section 10. Voting Lists. The officer or agent having charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall make, at least ten days before each meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, or any adjournment thereof, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of
 
and the number of shares held by each; which list, for a period of ten days prior to such meeting, shall be kept at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list shall be subject to inspection by any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting, at any time during usual business hours. Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting. The original stock ledger shall be prima facie evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine such list or ledger or to vote at any meeting of stockholders.
     Section 11. Fixing of Record Date. For the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of stockholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders. Such date in any case to be not more than sixty days and, in case of a meeting of stockholders, not less than ten days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring such determination of stockholders, is to be taken. If no record date is fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders, or stockholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the close of business on the date next preceding the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of stockholders. When a determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders has been made as provided in this Section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
     Section 12. Voting of Shares by Certain Holders. Neither treasury shares nor shares of the Corporation held by another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall be entitled to vote or to be counted for quorum purposes. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as
 
limiting the right of the Corporation to vote its own stock held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
     Shares standing in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted in the name of such corporation by any officer thereof or pursuant to any proxy executed in the name of such corporation by any officer of such corporation unless there has been express written notice filed with the Secretary that such officer has no authority to vote such shares.
     Shares held by an administrator, executor, guardian, conservator, trustee in bankruptcy, receiver or assignee for creditors may be voted by him or her, either in person or by proxy, without a transfer of such shares into such person's name. Shares standing in the name of a fiduciary may be voted by such person, either in person or by proxy.
     A stockholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the Corporation the pledgor has expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee, or the pledgee's proxy, may represent such stock and vote thereon.
     Section 13. Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominations and Proposals for other Business. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be transacted by the stockholders may be made at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice with respect to such meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record on the record date set with respect to such meeting (as provided for in Section 11 of Article III), who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13. For nominations or proposals for other business to be properly brought before an annual or special meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) above, the stockholder must give timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware General Corporation Law and a proper matter for consideration at such meeting under the Certificate of Incorporation and these
 
Bylaws. For such notice to be timely, it must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal place of business of the Corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to the date of such meeting and (a) in the case of an annual meeting of stockholders, at least 45 days before the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders and (b) in the case of a special meeting, not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 60th day prior to the date of such meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. If such stockholder notice relates to a proposal by such stockholder to nominate one or more persons for election or re-election as a director, it shall set forth all information relating to each such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including, if and to the extent so required, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected). If such stockholder notice relates to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, it shall set forth a brief description of such business, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made. Each such notice shall also set forth as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner. Persons nominated by stockholders to serve as directors of the Corporation who have not been nominated in accordance with this Section 13 shall not be eligible to serve as directors. Only such business shall be conducted at an annual or special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 13. The Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair (as described in Section 14 of this Article III) of the
 
meeting shall determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be transacted by the stockholders has been properly brought before the meeting and, if any proposed nomination or business has not been properly brought before the meeting, the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair (as described in Section 14 of this Article III) shall declare that such proposed business or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting. For purposes of this Section 13, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release or other means reasonably designed to provide broad distribution of the information to the public, or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 13 to the contrary, requests for inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act shall be deemed to have been delivered in a timely manner if delivered in accordance with such Rule. Notwithstanding compliance with the requirements of this Section 13, the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair (as described in Section 14 of this Article III) presiding at any meeting of the stockholders may, in his or her sole discretion, refuse to allow a stockholder or stockholder representative to present any proposal which the Corporation would not be required to include in a proxy statement under any rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nothing in this Section 13 shall be deemed to affect any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, to elect directors, established by resolution of the Board of Directors as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.
     Section 14. Procedures. The Chairman of the Board or other person presiding as provided in these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors (the "Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair"), shall call meetings of the stockholders to order. The Secretary, or in the event of his or her absence or disability, the Assistant Secretary, if any, or if there be no Assistant Secretary, in the absence of the Secretary, an appointee of the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair, shall act as Secretary of the meeting. The order of business and all other matters of procedure at every meeting of stockholders may be determined by such
 
Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair. Except to the extent inconsistent with applicable law, these Bylaws or any rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts, including causing an adjournment of such meeting, as, in the judgment of such Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair, are appropriate. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair shall permit; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; and (f) establishing times for opening and closing of the voting polls for each item upon which a vote is to be taken. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Presiding Stockholder Meeting Chair of the meeting, meetings of the stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
     Section 1. Annual Meetings. An annual meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders.
     Section 2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board or any two directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the
 
Board of Directors may fix any place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them.
     Section 3. Meetings in Executive Session. During any annual meeting or special meeting of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors may have an executive session with only the nonemployee directors or only the independent directors present and such other invitees as the directors participating in the executive session shall so determine. No separate notice of the executive session is required. The presiding director, as determined by the Board of Directors' established procedures, shall preside at such executive session unless the directors participating in the executive session shall select another director to preside.
     Section 4. Notice. Notice of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given. Except as set forth in the next sentence, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called: (i) on 24 hours notice if notice is given to each director personally or by telephone, including a voice messaging system, or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic means, or (ii) on two days notice if notice is sent by overnight courier or (iii) on five days notice if notice is mailed, to each director, addressed to him or her at his or her usual place of business or residence. If, however, the meeting is called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board and if the Chairman of the Board decides that unusual and urgent business is to be transacted at the meeting (which decision shall be conclusively demonstrated by the Chairman of the Board giving notice of the meeting less than 24 hours prior to the meeting), then at least 2 hours prior notice shall be given. Any director may waive notice of any meeting. The attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a director attends a meeting and objects at the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any
 
special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
     Section 5. Quorum. One-third of the number of directors fixed by, or pursuant to, Section 2 of Article II shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, but if less than such one-third is present at a meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
     Section 6. Manner of Acting. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
     Section 7. Presumption of Assent. A director of the Corporation who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his or her dissent is entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless the director files a written dissent to such action with the person acting as the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or forwards such dissent by registered mail to the Secretary of the Corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. Such right to dissent shall not apply to a director who voted in favor of such action.
     Section 8. Action by Directors Without a Meeting. Any action required to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or at a meeting of a committee of directors, or any other action which may be taken at a meeting, may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing or by electronic transmission setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by all of the directors or members of the committee thereof entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof and filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee and such consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote.
     Section 9. Participation in a Meeting by Telephone. Members of the Board of Directors or any committee of directors may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the
 
meeting can hear each other, and participating in a meeting pursuant to this Section 9 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
     Section 10. Regulations; Manner of Acting. To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Directors and for the management of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate.
     Section 1. Elected Officers. The elected officers of the Corporation shall include a Chief Executive Officer and Secretary of the Corporation and such other officers as the Board of Directors may designate by resolution to be elected directly by the Board of Directors or in any other manner as the Board of Directors may determine. The elected officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to these Bylaws. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. Each elected officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed. Any elected officer serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and may be removed by the Board of Directors at any time for any reason. Except as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, any elected officer of the Corporation other than the Chief Executive Officer, the President (if any), the Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary or the Controller may be removed by the CEO provided that the CEO is a member of the Board of Directors at any time for any reason.
     Section 2. The Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall annually elect one of its own members to be the Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Chairman of the Board"). The Chairman of the Board (who may also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation), may also be an elected officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders, except as otherwise
 
provided under these Bylaws, and may at any time call any meeting of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may remove or replace the Chairman of the Board as Chairman at any time for any reason.
     Section 3. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Vice Chairman of the Board"), if any, shall perform all of the duties which are incident to the office and such other duties as may be delegated or assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, from time to time. If there are two or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, they shall preside at meetings as prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chairman of the Board from time to time.
     Section 4. The Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") shall be the senior executive officer of the Corporation and shall in general supervise and control all the business and affairs of the Corporation. He or she shall direct the policies of the Corporation and shall perform all other duties incident to the office or as may be delegated or assigned by the Board of Directors by resolution from time to time. He or she may delegate powers to any other officer of the Corporation.
     Section 5. The President. The President (who may also be the Chief Operating Officer) shall have such duties as are incident to such office or as may be delegated or assigned by the Board of Directors by resolution from time to time. Prior to any action by the Board of Directors, in the absence or disability of the CEO, the President shall exercise the functions of the CEO and shall have the authority of the CEO. There is no requirement that there be a President.
     Section 6. Vice Presidents. A Vice President may be designated as an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President, a Corporate Vice President or such other designation as may be determined by the Board of Directors. Vice Presidents shall have such duties as are incident to such office or as may be delegated or assigned by the Board of Directors by resolution from time to time.
     Section 7. The Secretary. The Secretary shall give notice of, and keep the minutes of, all meetings of the Board of Directors and the stockholders. He or she shall in general perform all of the duties which are incident to the office of secretary of a company, subject at all times to the direction and control of the
 
Board of Directors, and shall have such other duties as may be delegated or assigned by the Board of Directors by resolution from time to time.
     The Secretary may appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries, each of whom shall have the power to affix and attest the corporate seal of the Corporation, and to attest to the execution of documents on behalf of the Corporation and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Secretary.
     Section 8. The Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall be the senior financial officer of the Corporation and shall have such duties as are incident to such office or as may be delegated or assigned from time to time by the CEO or by the Board of Directors.
     Section 9. The Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of all of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall have such duties as are incident to such office or as may be delegated or assigned from time to time by the CEO or by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers to perform such duties as may be assigned by the Treasurer.
     Section 10. The Controller. The Controller shall be the Chief Accounting Officer of the Corporation and shall have such duties as are incident to such office or as may be delegated or assigned from time to time by the CEO or by the Board of Directors.
     Section 11. Statutory Duties. Each respective officer shall discharge any and all duties pertaining to their respective office, which is imposed on such officer by the provisions of any present or future statute of the State of Delaware.
     Section 12. Delegation of Duties. In case of the absence of any officer of the Corporation, the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors may delegate, for the time being, the duties of such officer to any other officer or to any director.
     Section 1. Certificates for Shares. Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board of
 
Directors. Such certificates shall be signed by the CEO or President, and by the Treasurer or the Secretary. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock ledger of the Corporation.
     Section 2. Transfer of Certificate. Transfer of shares of the Corporation shall be made only upon the records of the Transfer Agent appointed for this purpose, by the owner in person or by the legal representative of such owner and, upon such transfer being made, the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Transfer Agent who shall cancel the same and thereupon issue a new certificate or certificates therefor. Whenever a transfer is made for collateral security, and not absolutely, the fact shall be so expressed in the recording of the transfer.
     Section 3. Transfer Agent and Registrar. The Board of Directors may appoint a transfer agent and registrar of transfers and thereafter may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of such transfer agent and such registrar of transfers. The signature of either the transfer agent or the registrar may be a facsimile.
     Section 4. Registered Holder. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the registered holder of any shares as the absolute owner thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim thereto, or interest therein, on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the statutes of the State of Delaware.
     Section 5. Rules of Transfer. The Board of Directors also shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem
 
expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of the certificates for the shares of the Corporation.
     Section 6. Lost Certificates. Any person claiming a certificate for shares of this Corporation to be lost or destroyed, shall make affidavit of the fact and lodge the same with the Secretary of the Corporation, accompanied by a signed application for a new certificate. Such person shall give to the Corporation, to the extent deemed necessary by the Secretary or Treasurer, a bond of indemnity with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Secretary, and in an amount which, in his or her judgment, shall be sufficient to save the Corporation from loss, and thereupon the proper officer or officers may cause to be issued a new certificate of like tenor with the one alleged to be lost or destroyed. But the Secretary may recommend to the Board of Directors that it refuse the issuance of such new certificate in the event that the applicable provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code are not met.
     Section 1. Contracts. The Board of Directors may authorize, by these Bylaws or any resolution, any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
     Section 2. Loans. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by these Bylaws or a resolution of the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
     Section 3. Checks, Drafts, etc. All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents, of the Corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by these Bylaws or a resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
     Section 4. Deposits. All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Directors may select.
     Complete books and records of account together with minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and Board of Directors shall be kept. A record of stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders, and the number and class of the shares held by each, shall be kept by the Corporation at its registered office or principal place of business in the State of Illinois or at the office of a Transfer Agent or Registrar.
     Section 1. Manner of Notice. Whenever, under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or of the Bylaws of the Corporation or of the statutes of the State of Delaware, notice is required to be given to a stockholder, to a director or to an officer, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice, unless expressly stated so to be. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given to stockholders, any notice so required (other than notice by publication) may be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder, director or officer, at his, or her, address as the same appears on the records of the Corporation, and the time when the same is mailed shall be deemed the time of the giving of such notice or by electronic transmission consented to (in a manner consistent with the Delaware General Corporation Law) by the stockholder. Any such notice by electronic transmission shall be deemed to be given: (1) if by facsimile, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to (in a manner consistent with the Delaware General
 
Corporation Law) receive notice; (3) if by posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of specific posting, upon the later of such posting and the giving of the separate notice, and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed by the stockholder.
     Section 2. Waiver of Notice. Notice of the time, place, and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived (i) in writing signed by the person entitled to notice thereof or (ii) by electronic transmission made by the person entitled to notice, in each case either before or after such meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in a written waiver of notice or any waiver by electronic transmission. Notice will be waived by any stockholder by his or her attendance thereat in person or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the 1st day of January and terminate on the 31st day of December or as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors.
     The Emergency Bylaws provided in this Article XI shall be operative upon (a) the declaration of a civil defense emergency by the President of the United States or by concurrent resolution of the Congress of the United States pursuant to Title 50, Appendix, Section 2291 of the United States Code, or any amendment thereof, or (b) upon a proclamation of a civil defense emergency by
 
the Governor of the State of Illinois which relates to an attack or imminent attack on the United States or any of its possessions. Such Emergency Bylaws, or any amendments to these Bylaws adopted during such emergency, shall cease to be effective and shall be suspended upon any proclamation by the President of the United States, or the passage by the Congress of a concurrent resolution, or any declaration by the Governor of Illinois that such civil defense emergency no longer exists.
     During any such emergency, any meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by any officer of the Corporation or by any director. Notice shall be given by such person or by any officer of the Corporation. The notice shall specify the place of the meeting, which shall be at the principal place of business of the Corporation at the time if feasible, and otherwise, any other place specified in the notice. The notice shall also specify the time of the meeting. Notice may be given only to such of the directors as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by such means as may be feasible at the time, including publication or radio. If given by mail, messenger, telephone, or telegram, the notice shall be addressed to the director at his or her residence or business address, or such other place as the person giving the notice shall deem most suitable. Notice shall be similarly given, to the extent feasible in the judgment of the person giving the notice, to the other directors. Notice shall be given at least two days before the meeting, if feasible in the judgment of the person giving the notice, and otherwise on any shorter time he or she may deem necessary.
     The Board of Directors may at any time and from time to time award to former members of the Board of Directors in recognition of their past distinguished service and contribution rendered to the Corporation the honorary title "Director Emeritus." The award of this title shall not constitute an election or appointment to the Board of Directors, nor to any office of the Corporation, nor the bestowal of any duties, responsibilities or privileges associated therewith; and accordingly no "Director Emeritus" shall be deemed a "Director" as that term is
 
used in these Bylaws. The title "Director Emeritus" shall carry no compensation, and holders thereof shall not attend any meetings of the Board of Directors or committees of the Board of Directors, except by written invitation, nor shall they be specially privy to any confidential information arising from such meeting.
      These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted at any meeting of the Board of Directors by a majority vote of the directors present at the meeting.

 
Exhibit 10.1
Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") is pleased to grant you options to purchase shares of Motorola's common stock under the [] (the "Plan"). The number of options ("Options") awarded to you and the Exercise Price per Option, which is the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant, are stated above. Each Option entitles you to purchase one share of Motorola's common stock on the terms described below and in the Plan.
Name of Plan
Vesting and Exercisability
You cannot exercise the Options until they have vested.
 The Options will vest in accordance with the following schedule (subject to the other terms hereof):
Regular Vesting
 You may be subject to the Special Vesting Dates described below if your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary (as defined below) terminates.
Special Vesting
 You may exercise Options at any time after they vest and before they expire as described below.
Exercisability
Expiration
All Options expire on the earlier of (1) the Date of Expiration as stated above or (2) any of the Special Expiration Dates described below. Once an Option expires, you no longer have the right to exercise it.
Special Vesting Dates and Special Expiration Dates
There are events that cause your Options to vest sooner than the schedule discussed above or to expire sooner than the Date of Expiration as stated above. Those events are as follows:
 If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is ended because of your Retirement, all your vested Options will then expire on the earlier of eighteen months following the ending of your employment or service because of your Retirement or the Date of Expiration stated above. Retirement means (only for purposes of this Option) your retirement from Motorola or a Subsidiary as follows:
Retirement
 
 If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is terminated because of your Total and Permanent Disability (as defined below), Options that are not vested will automatically become fully vested upon your termination of employment or service. All your Options will then expire on the earlier of the first anniversary of your termination of employment or service because of your Total and Permanent Disability or the Date of Expiration stated above. Until that time, the Options will be exercisable by you or your guardian or legal representative.
Disability
 If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is terminated because of your death, Options that are not vested will automatically become fully vested upon your death. All your Options will then expire on the earlier of the first anniversary of your death or the Date of Expiration stated above. Until that time, with written proof of death and inheritance, the Options will be exercisable by your legal representative, legatees or distributees.
Death
 If there is a Change In Control of Motorola (as defined in the Plan), all the unvested Options will automatically become fully vested as described in the Plan. If Motorola or a Subsidiary terminates your employment or service other than for Serious Misconduct within two years of consummation of a Change In Control, all of your vested Options will be exercisable until the Date of Expiration stated above.
Change In Control
 If you accept employment with another company in direct connection with the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Motorola or a Subsidiary (a "Divestiture"), all of your unvested Options will automatically expire upon termination in direct connection with a Divestiture and your vested Options will expire 12 months after such Divestiture or such shorter period remaining until expiration as set forth above.
Change in Employment in Connection with a Divestiture
 If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is terminated in a manner entitling you to severance benefits under Section 5(a)(i) of your Employment Agreement with Motorola, dated as of December 15, 2003 (the "Employment Agreement"), your Options will be treated in the manner set forth in Section 5(a)(iii) of the Employment Agreement.
Termination of Employment or Service Entitling you to Severance Benefits Under Section 5(a) of your Employment Agreement
 If Motorola or a Subsidiary terminates your employment or service because of Serious Misconduct (as defined below) or if you voluntarily terminate employment without Good Reason including by a Notice of Non-Renewal (as such terms are defined in your Employment Agreement), all of your Options (vested and unvested) expire upon your termination.
Termination of Employment or Service Because of Serious Misconduct or by you other than for Good Reason
 If Motorola terminates your employment or service as a result of a Notice of Non-Renewal (as defined in your Employment Agreement), all of your unvested Options will automatically expire upon termination and your vested Options will expire twelve months after your termination of employment or such shorter period remaining until expiration as set forth above.
Termination of Employment or Service by Motorola as a Result of a Notice of Non-Renewal
 If you take a Leave of Absence from Motorola or a Subsidiary that your employer has approved in writing in accordance with your employer's Leave of Absence Policy and which does not constitute a termination of employment as determined by Motorola or a Subsidiary the following will apply:
Leave of Absence
Options will continue to vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth above.
Vesting of Options 
You may exercise Options that are vested or that vest during the leave of absence.
Exercising Options 
Service  If your employment or service is terminated during the Leave of Absence, the treatment of your Options will be determined as described under "Special Vesting Dates and Special Expiration Dates" above.
Effect of Termination of Employment or
Other Terms
Method of Exercising  You must follow the procedures for exercising options established by
 
Motorola from time to time. At the time of exercise, you must pay the Exercise Price for all of the Options being exercised and any taxes that are required to be withheld by Motorola or a Subsidiary in connection with the exercise. Options may not be exercised for less than 50 shares unless the number of shares represented by the Option is less than 50 shares, in which case the Option must be exercised for the remaining amount.
Transferability  Unless the Committee provides, Options are not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Tax Withholding  Motorola or a Subsidiary is entitled to withhold an amount equal to the required minimum statutory withholding taxes for the respective tax jurisdictions attributable to any share of common stock deliverable in connection with the exercise of the Options. You may satisfy any withholding obligation in whole or in part by electing to have Motorola retain Option shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld.
Definition of Terms
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Plan.
"Fair Market Value" is the closing price for a share of Motorola common stock on the last trading day before the date of grant or date of exercise, whichever is applicable. The official source for the closing price is the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Midwest edition.
"Serious Misconduct" means any misconduct identified as a ground for termination in the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or the human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures, including the conduct described as "Cause" under your Employment Agreement.
"Subsidiary" means an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
"Total and Permanent Disability" means "Disability" as defined in your Employment Agreement.
Consent to Transfer Personal Data
By accepting this award, you voluntarily acknowledge and consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph. You are not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However, failure to provide the consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. Motorola, its Subsidiaries and your employer hold certain personal information about you, that may include your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary, salary grade, hire data, nationality, job title, any shares of stock held in Motorola, or details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). Motorola and/or its Subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and Motorola and/or any of its Subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting Motorola in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. You authorize them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on your behalf to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. You may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting Motorola; however, withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.
Acknowledgement of Discretionary Nature of the Plan; No Vested Rights
You acknowledge and agree that the Plan is discretionary in nature and limited in duration, and may be amended, cancelled, or terminated by Motorola or a Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, at any time. The grant of awards under the Plan is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right to receive an award in the future. Future
 
grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of Motorola, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grant, the amount of the award, vesting provisions, and the exercise price.
Substitute Stock Appreciation Right
Motorola reserves the right to substitute a Stock Appreciation Right for your Option in the event certain changes are made in the accounting treatment of stock options. Any substitute Stock Appreciation Right shall be applicable to the same number of shares as your Option and shall have the same Date of Expiration, Exercise Price, and other terms and conditions. Any substitute Stock Appreciation Right may be settled only in Common Stock.
Acceptance of Terms and Conditions
By accepting the Options, you agree to be bound by these terms and conditions, the Plan and any and all rules and regulations established by Motorola in connection with awards issued under the Plan. To the extent of any inconsistency between the terms of this Award Document and the terms of your Employment Agreement, the terms of the Employment Agreement shall govern, except as set forth in the immediately following sentence. To the extent of any inconsistency between the terms of the accompanying Stock Option Consideration Agreement and your Employment Agreement, the terms of the Stock Option Consideration Agreement shall govern.
Other Information about Your Options and the Plan
You can find other information about options and the Plan on the Motorola website http://myhr.mot.com/finances/stock_options/index.jsp If you do not have access to the website, please contact Motorola Global Rewards, 1303 E. Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, IL 60196 USA; GBLRW01@Motorola.com; 847-576-7885; for an order form to request Plan documents.

 
Exhibit 10.2
The following Agreement is established to protect the trade secrets, intellectual property, confidential information, customer relationships and goodwill of Motorola, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries (the "Company") both as defined in the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2000, as amended (the "2000 Plan").
As sole consideration for the stock option(s) granted to me on the date shown above under the terms of the 2000 Plan, the Amended and Restated Motorola Incentive Plan of 1998 (the "1998 Plan"), the Motorola Compensation/Acquisition Plan of 2000 (the "C/A Plan"), the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2002 (the "2002 Plan") or the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 (the "2003 Plan"), as the case may be (the Covered Options"), and as a person with a salary grade of EXB and/or as a Motorola appointed vice president or elected officer, I agree to the following:
(1) I agree that during the course of my employment and thereafter, I will not use or disclose, except on behalf of the Company and pursuant to its directions during the course of my employment, any Company Confidential Information. Confidential Information means information concerning the Company and its business that is not generally known outside the Company. Confidential Information includes: (i) trade secrets; (ii) intellectual property; (iii) the Company's methods of operation and Company processes; (iv) information regarding the Company's present and/or future products, developments, processes and systems, including invention disclosures and patent applications; (v) information on customers or potential customers, including customer's names, sales records, prices, and other terms of sales and Company cost information; (vi) Company personnel data; (vii) Company business plans, marketing plans, financial data and projections; and (viii) information received in confidence by the Company from third parties. Information regarding products or technological innovations in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its affiliates is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented.
(2) I acknowledge and agree that for a period of two years following my termination of employment, I will not recruit, solicit or induce, or cause, allow, permit or aid others to recruit, solicit or induce, or to communicate in support of those activities, any employee of the Company to terminate his/her employment with the Company and/or to seek employment with my new or prospective employer, or any other company.
(3) I understand that by accepting the Covered Options, (i) if I violate the terms of paragraphs 1 or 2 of this Agreement, or (ii) if during a period of two years following the termination of my employment for any reason I engage in activities which are the same as or similar to activities in which I engaged at any time during the two years preceding termination of my employment, for any person, company or entity in connection with products, services or technological developments (existing or planned) that are the same as, similar to, or competitive with, any products, services or technological developments (existing or planned) on which I worked at any time during the two years preceding the termination of my employment, then:
 
Paragraph 3(ii) applies in the countries in or for which I have performed work at any time during the two years preceding termination of my employment.
(4) The requirements of this agreement can be waived or modified only upon the prior written consent of Motorola, Inc. I acknowledge that the promises in this Agreement, not any employment of or services performed by me in the course and scope of that employment, are the sole consideration for the Covered Options.
(5) I agree that upon termination of employment with the Company and for a period of two years thereafter, I will immediately inform the Company of (i) the identity of my new employer (or the nature of any start-up business, consulting arrangements or self-employment), (ii) my new title, and (iii) my job duties and responsibilities. I hereby authorize the Company to provide a copy of this Agreement to my new employer. I further agree to provide information to the Company as may from time to time be requested in order to determine my compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
(6) I acknowledge that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of paragraphs 1 and/or 2 of this Agreement may be irreparable and I agree the Company may have injunctive relief against me in addition to and cumulative with any other rights and remedies the Company may have pursuant to this Agreement, any other agreements between me and the Company for the protection of the Company's Confidential Information, or law, including the recovery of liquidated damages. I agree that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction will, at the request of the Company, be entered on consent and enforced by any court having jurisdiction over me. This relief would occur without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
(7) If any provisions contained in this Agreement shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be overly broad as to scope of activity, duration or territory, I consent to any request by the Company to such court to interpret such provision by limiting or reducing it to be enforceable to the extent compatible with then applicable law. If any one or more of the terms, provisions, covenants or restrictions of this Agreement are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, then the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. However, and without regard to the foregoing, if paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 herein, or either of them, is not enforceable or otherwise invalid, the consideration I am providing Motorola for the Covered Options would fail. I agree that all of my Covered Options will terminate and that, I will pay Motorola the spread on any Covered Options exercised within two years prior to the termination of my employment or anytime after termination of my employment.
(8) I accept the terms of this Agreement and the above option(s) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms of this Agreement, the 1998 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the C/A Plan, the 2002 Plan and/or the 2003 Plan, as the case may be, and any Award Document issued pursuant to one of those Plans. I am familiar with the 1998 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the C/A Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan and agree to be bound by each to the extent applicable, the actions of the Compensation Committee and the actions of the Company's Board of Directors.
(9) I agree that this Agreement and the 1998 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the C/A Plan, the 2002 Plan and/or the 2003 Plan, as the case may be, and any Award Document issued pursuant to one of those Plans, together constitute an agreement between the Company and me. I further agree that this Agreement is governed by the laws of Illinois, without giving effect to principles of Conflicts of Laws, and any legal action related to this Agreement shall be brought in any federal or state court located in Illinois, USA.
I accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Agreement and stock option(s) offer.
 
IN ORDER FOR THE ABOVE-REFERENCED OPTION(S) TO BE AWARDED, THIS AGREEMENT, SIGNED AND DATED, MUST BE RETURNED TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE NO LATER THAN JUNE 27, 2004.

 
Exhibit 10.3
Overview
The 2005 Motorola Incentive Plan (the "Plan") has been established to retain employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward employees for strong business performance. The Plan is based on successive calendar-year performance periods commencing 1 January 2005 (each a "Plan Year"). The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003 ("Omnibus Plan").
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in this Plan, an employee must be:
Award Calculation
Awards will be calculated and paid after the close of each Plan Year on which the awards are based. The award amount will be based on Eligible Earnings, the Target Award %, and the Business and Individual Performance Factors, as follows:
Eligible Earnings is defined below. Target Award %'s, Business Performance Factors and Individual Performance Factors for each Plan Year shall be determined by the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee"). Business Performance Factors shall be based on Operating Earnings, Operating Cash Flow, Revenue Growth, Quality and such other factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee.
Payout Process
Administration
 
General Provisions
Definitions
: The MIP Committee will determine Eligible Earnings for each country, consistent with their respective legal and practical requirements. The MIP Committee may determine inclusions and exclusions from Eligible Earnings as it deems appropriate and may vary its determinations by country.
Eligible Earnings
: a person in an employee-employer relationship with the Company whose base wage or base salary is processed for payment by the Company's Payroll Department(s) and not by any other department of the Company (or by any other company). Does not include:
Employee
 
: This Plan utilizes the definition of "retiree" that appears in the primary retirement plan covering the employee.
Retired
calculated according to GAAP, excluding one-time events called out in earnings releases, such as restructuring activities and sales of marketable securities.
Operating Earnings:
calculated according to GAAP, excluding gains on sales of investments and securities.
Operating Cash Flow:
calculated as the year-over-year percentage increase in net sales after discounts according to GAAP, adjusted for the impact of mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures in excess of $50 million.
Revenue Growth:
combination of measures of customer satisfaction, reliability, and cost of poor quality, as defined by Motorola senior leaders.
Quality:
If a term is used in the Plan, but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.

 
Exhibit 10.4
This is a complete and final Agreement between MIKE ZAFIROVSKI ("you"), and Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") that resolves all matters between you and Motorola. Except where otherwise specified, this Agreement supersedes and nullifies all prior and concurrent communications, acknowledgements and agreements between you and Motorola. This Agreement has individually negotiated and has not been reached as part of a group incentive or other termination program. In consideration for the payments and benefits provided under this Agreement, you and Motorola agree to the following terms of your separation from Motorola:
1. . Your duties and responsibilities as President and Chief Operating Officer of Motorola ceased effective January 31, 2005 (the "Transition Date"). You tender and Motorola accepts your resignation as an employee or director of Motorola and its subsidiaries and affiliates effective as of July 29, 2005 (the "Separation Date"). Between the Transition Date and the Separation Date, you shall perform consulting services as requested by the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola (the "CEO"), to assist in effecting a smooth transition of your responsibilities and knowledge to the CEO and/or any person(s) he designates. At Motorola's request, you shall execute any and all documents reasonably necessary to confirm your resignation as an employee, director and/or officer of Motorola and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates. You shall not stand for reelection to the Motorola Board of Directors in 2005.
SEPARATION
2. . Motorola will pay you at your regular base salary rate at regular payroll intervals, less applicable state and federal payroll deductions, between your Transition Date and Separation Date. The total gross amount of these payments is Four Hundred Sixty-Eight Thousand Dollars and No Cents ($468,000.00) ("Transition Allowance"). Except as otherwise provided herein, you will continue to participate in all employee plans, and outstanding equity incentive awards, in which you currently participate and will be credited with service for vesting (and receive dividends when declared and paid generally) under all applicable Motorola employee plans through the Separation Date. Motorola also will
SEPARATION ALLOWANCE, REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES, OFFICE SPACE
 
Signature of Attachment A is a condition to your receiving the Separation Allowance and other consideration under this Agreement. The above payments include and exceed any vacation pay, bonuses, or any other amounts that are unpaid as of your separation. You will receive a full 2004 bonus (with an individual performance factor of not less than 1.0) under the MIP and a 2003-2004 MRIP bonus when other executives receive their 2004 bonuses, in accordance with the terms of the respective plans. On the Separation Date, the unvested shares of your 2000 restricted stock grant will vest in accordance with its terms. You will only be paid the amounts specifically identified in this Agreement and will not receive any additional payments from Motorola. You shall not be eligible for any 2005 bonus under the Motorola Incentive Plan ("MIP"), any bonus under the Motorola Mid-Range Incentive Plan ("MRIP") for the 2004-2005 performance cycle, or any other bonus for 2004 or 2005 or later under any annual, mid-range or long-range bonus plan.
3. .
BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PLANS, OTHER PERQUISITES
(a) The effect of your separation and this Agreement upon your participation in, coverage under, and rights to distribution or other payment from any of Motorola's benefit or compensation plans, including but not limited to the Motorola Elected Officers Supplemental Retirement Plan, the Motorola Elected Officers Life Insurance Plan, the Motorola Mid-Range Incentive Plan for any given cycle, the Motorola Incentive Plan, the Motorola Management Deferred Compensation Plan, the Motorola Financial Planning Program, any applicable stock option plan, any stock option award document, and any restricted stock agreements shall be governed by the terms of those plans, documents and agreements. Motorola is making no guarantee, warranty or representation in this Agreement regarding any position that may be taken by any administrator or plan regarding the effect of this Agreement upon your rights, benefits or coverage under those plans
.
(b) Upon your separation, each of your outstanding stock option grants will be accorded the most favorable treatment for which each grant qualifies per the terms of the applicable stock option plans or award documents (exercisable for not less than the lesser of 12 months or the unexpired stated option term).
(c) Benefits coverage in effect on your Separation Date under the Motorola Employee Medical Benefits Plan ("Medical Plan"), as amended from time to time, will be continued at the regular employee contribution rate through the end of December 31, 2005, provided that you comply with all terms and conditions of the Medical Plan, including paying the necessary contributions and provided further, if you are reemployed with another employer and become covered under that employer's medical plan, the medical benefits described herein (if they are not terminated as provided in COBRA, defined below) shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan. After the total period of medical benefit continuation provided in this Agreement, you may elect to continue medical benefits under the Medical Plan at your own expense, in accordance with COBRA. The period of medical benefit continuation described immediately above counts toward and reduces the maximum coverage under Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code ("COBRA"), as described in Treasury Regulation Section 54.4980B-7, A-7(a). The COBRA period commences on the first of the month following the Separation Date.
(d) Your use of Company aircraft, other than on Motorola business at the request of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and all other officer perquisites shall cease no later than January 31, 2005.
 
4. . Effective on or within fourteen days after your Separation Date, Motorola will transfer to you ownership of your cellular phone, your home broadband modem, your "good" wireless e-mail device and your laptop computer (the hard drive for which to be removed and replaced by Motorola). On that date you will assume responsibility for all, maintenance, service and other fees related thereto, and Motorola will have no responsibility for it thereafter. You are responsible for any income taxes due as a result of this transfer. Motorola also will provide senior executive outplacement and career continuation services by a firm to be selected by Motorola for a period of up to one (1) year if you elect to participate in such services.
TRANSFER OF EQUIPMENT/OUTPLACEMENT
5. . In the event of your death after the effective date of this Agreement, your surviving spouse shall be paid any unpaid payment amounts described in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, provided you had not breached paragraphs 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 prior to your death and provided further that eligibility for and payments made pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Agreement in the event of your death shall be made according to the terms of the applicable plans, award documents and agreements referenced therein.
PAYMENT IN THE EVENT OF DEATH
6. . You agree that you will not, directly or indirectly, individually or in concert with others, engage in any conduct or make any statement calculated or likely to have the effect of undermining, disparaging or otherwise reflecting poorly upon Motorola or its good will, products or business opportunities, or in any manner detrimental to Motorola, though you may give truthful and nonmalicious testimony if properly subpoenaed to testify under oath. Motorola agrees that all members of the Senior Leadership Team ("SLT"), all members of the Motorola Board of Directors and all vice presidents of Human Resources as of the date of execution of this Agreement will not, directly or indirectly, individually or in concert with others, engage in any conduct or make any statement calculated or likely to have the effect of undermining, disparaging or otherwise reflecting poorly upon you, or in any manner detrimental to you, though they may give truthful and nonmalicious testimony if properly subpoenaed to testify under oath.
NO DISPARAGEMENT
7. . From your Transition Date, and for as long thereafter as shall be reasonably necessary, you agree to cooperate fully with Motorola in any investigation, negotiation, litigation or other action arising out of transactions in which you were involved or of which you had knowledge during your employment by Motorola. If you incur any business expenses in the course of performing your obligations under this paragraph, you will be reimbursed for the full amount of all reasonable expenses upon your submission of adequate receipts confirming that such expenses actually were incurred. Both before and after termination of your employment, Motorola will continue to indemnify you from claims, demands, judgments, fines, penalties, settlement amounts, expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses) and all other liability reasonably incurred in defending any actual or threatened action, lawsuit, investigation or other similar judicial, arbitration or administrative proceeding arising out of your employment with Motorola, provided that if the matter is a civil action, you acted in good faith and in a manner you reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of Motorola and if the matter is a criminal action, you had no reasonable cause to believe your conduct was unlawful. Such indemnification shall continue for so long as you may be subject to liability in connection with your service as an officer or director of Motorola. You will continue to be insured under policies of directors and officers liability insurance, to the fullest extent permitted for former officers or directors under the applicable policy(ies); provided, such insurance coverage may be terminated if Motorola terminates
COOPERATION/INDEMNIFICATION
 
coverage generally for all officers and directors.
8. . You agree to maintain the confidentiality of Motorola's confidential or proprietary information and trade secrets in accordance with agreements previously signed by you and with the law applicable to you as an officer and director of Motorola, including but not limited to state trade secret protection statutes and your common law fiduciary duty and duty of loyalty. Such Motorola confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets relating to Motorola's past, present, or future business, products or technology include, but are not limited to, information in the following categories: (a) strategy and roadmap information including but not limited to business plans, strategic plans, initiatives, potential merger, acquisition and divestiture plans, venture capital investment plans, five-year and other financial and business plans, new and existing business/product plans, and capital planning; (b) alliance, investment and strategic relationship information including but not limited to non-public alliance and investment identity, terms and conditions of contracts, terms of investment, and status of existing/consideration of potential alliances and strategic relationships; (c) management information including but not limited to activities of any corporate-level, region-wide, Motorola-wide, business unit, regional or account leadership team, or their direct reports; (d) technology information including but not limited to present and future research and development, technology roadmaps, technology licensing strategies, and communications and semiconductor core and process strategies; (e) employee and employment information including but not limited to members of leadership teams, job functions, organization and reporting relationships, individual performance, salaries, grades, stock options, bonus plans, variable pay plans, management and leadership planning, and high potential employee information, benefits, recruiting, and human resources policy and procedure; (f) customer information of Motorola including but not limited to non-public customer identity, product purchases, purchase volume, purchase quantity, product mix, sales strategies for particular customers, pricing, distribution plans and strategies, and customer relationship information; (g) product pricing and cost information including but not limited to product costs, margins, manufacturing, sales, development, and distribution costs; (h) manufacturing information including capacity, vendors, materials costs, foundry and outsourcing relationships, volume, pricing, and strategy, and internal manufacturing capabilities and strategy; (i) core process redesign plans, strategies, activities and implementation. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to prohibit you from disclosing information about Motorola, its customers, successors or assigns, or its affiliated entities, or about its or their products, services or business opportunities that is not confidential or proprietary. You shall give Motorola reasonable advance written notice of your intent to disclose any potentially confidential information obtained by you as a result of your employment by Motorola. For so long as the Company keeps this Agreement confidential, you agree to keep the existence and terms of this Agreement confidential, unless required by law to disclose this information, or except as may be disclosed to your attorneys or as needed to be disclosed to anyone preparing your tax returns.
PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND TRADE SECRETS
9. . You acknowledge that the nature of your duties and responsibilities for a future employer or for any entity or business for which you perform services in a contract relationship, if similar to those you performed at Motorola, might, by the very nature of the duties and responsibilities, result in the disclosure of trade secrets or other information that is confidential and/or proprietary to Motorola. Accordingly, you agree to inform any future employer, or entity or business contracting with you for services, of the possibility of such disclosure and the requirements
PROTECTION AGAINST INEVITABLE DISCLOSURE
 
of this Agreement and request that safeguards be established to ensure against such disclosure. You agree that you will not perform any duties or responsibilities for any third party that will involve the disclosure of Motorola confidential and/or proprietary information or trade secrets or that will present a reasonable possibility of such disclosure.
10. . You further agree, pursuant to your obligations to Motorola under the provisions of your Employment Agreement, the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, and the Corporate SOP titled Protection of Proprietary Information (POPI) to return to Motorola by your Transition Date all Motorola property and confidential and/or proprietary information including the originals and all copies and excerpts of documents, drawings, reports, specifications, samples and the like that were/are in your possession at all Motorola and non-Motorola locations, including but not limited to information stored electronically on computer hard drives or disks.
RETURN OF MOTOROLA PROPERTY
11. . You acknowledge that you have entered into certain Stock Option Agreements with Motorola and that such agreements, including the non-competition provisions therein, continue in full force and effect according to their terms. For a period of two years following your separation from employment, you will not recruit, solicit or induce, or cause, allow, permit or aid others to recruit, solicit or induce, or to communicate in support of those activities, any employee of Motorola to terminate his/her employment with Motorola and/or to seek employment with your new or prospective employer, or any other company.
NON-COMPETITION/NO SOLICITATION
12. . You agree that you will immediately inform Motorola of (i) the identity of any new employment, start-up business or self-employment in which you have engaged or will engage between the Transition Date and July 29,2007 (the "Notice Period"), (ii) your title in any such engagement, and (iii) your duties and responsibilities. You hereby authorize Motorola to provide a copy of this Agreement, excluding the economic terms, to any new employer or other entity or business by which you are engaged during the Notice Period. You further agree that during the Notice Period, you will provide such information to Motorola as it may from time to time reasonably request in order to determine your compliance with this Agreement.
NEW EMPLOYMENT
13. . You acknowledge that Motorola's agreement to make the payments set forth in Paragraph 2 above is conditioned upon your faithful performance of your obligations under this Agreement, and you agree to repay to Motorola the Transition Allowance and Eleven Million Dollars ($11,000,000.00) of the Separation Allowance received from Motorola under Paragraph 2, plus all sums received from Motorola under Paragraph 2(b) and (c), if you breach any of your obligations under Paragraphs 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 of this Agreement, or the Stock Option Agreements referenced in Paragraph 11. In addition, for all your vested options that were exercised within the three-year period prior to your Transition Date or at any time following your Transition Date, you will immediately pay to Motorola an amount representing the difference between the option price and the price you paid at the time of exercise. In the event of breach, all restricted stock and/or restricted stock unit agreements between you and Motorola shall operate according to their terms. In any dispute regarding this Agreement, each party will pay its own fees and costs.
BREACH OF AGREEMENT
14. . You and Motorola agree that, in exchange for the payments and other terms described above, Motorola is not admitting to any wrongdoing or unlawful action in its dealing with you and you fully and completely release
NON-ADMISSION/GENERAL RELEASE
 
Motorola and hold it harmless from any and all legal claims of any type to date arising out of your employment or the separation of your employment from Motorola, whether known or unknown, presently asserted or otherwise. This includes, but is not limited to, breach of any implied or express employment contracts or covenants; entitlement to any pay or benefits, including insurance and any claims under the Motorola Elected Officers Supplemental Retirement plan or any other retirement plan; claims for wrongful termination, public policy violations, defamation, emotional distress or other common law matters; or claims of discrimination based on race, sex, age (Age Discrimination in Employment Act), religion, national origin, disability, veteran's status, sexual preference, marital status or retaliation; or claims under the Family and Medical Leave Act. You understand that by signing this General Release you are not releasing any claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file an administrative charge of discrimination.
If you are employed in California, you expressly waive the protection of Section 1542 of the Civil Code of the State of California, which states that: "A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
15. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of your executors, administrators, legal representatives, heirs and legatees and on Motorola and its subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, employees, officers and their respective successors and assigns.
BINDING EFFECT
16. . You agree that you are signing this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily, that you have not been coerced or threatened into signing this Agreement and that you have not been promised anything else in exchange for signing this Agreement. You agree that if any part of this Agreement is found to be illegal or invalid, the rest of the Agreement will still be enforceable. You further agree that you have had sufficient time (at least 21 days) to consider this Agreement and you were advised to consult with an attorney, if desired, before signing below. You understand and agree that any change, whether material or otherwise, to the initial terms of this Agreement shall not restart the running of this twenty-one (21) day period. This Agreement will not become effective or enforceable until seven days after you sign it, during which time you can revoke it if you wish, by delivering a signed revocation letter within the seven-day period to A. Peter Lawson, General Counsel, Motorola, Inc., 1303 East Algonquin Rd., Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Any alterations to this Agreement must be in writing, signed by both parties.
CONDITIONS OF AGREEMENT
 
In consideration for the promises made by Motorola in the Separation and Release Agreement to which this is Attachment A, you fully and completely release Motorola and hold it harmless from any and all legal claims of any type to date arising out of your employment or the separation of your employment from Motorola, whether known or unknown, presently asserted or otherwise. This includes, but is not limited to, breach of any implied or express employment contracts or covenants; entitlement to any pay or benefits, including insurance and any claims under the Motorola Elected Officers Supplemental Retirement Plan or any other retirement plan; claims for wrongful termination, public policy violations, defamation, emotional distress or other common law matters; or claims of discrimination based on race, sex, age (Age Discrimination in Employment Act), religion, national origin, disability, veteran's status, sexual preference, marital status or retaliation; or claims under the Family and Medical Leave Act. You understand by signing this General Release you are not releasing any claims or rights arising under the Separation and Release Agreement or claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file an administrative charge of discrimination. You further agree that you have had sufficient time (at least 21 days) to consider the attached Separation and Release Agreement and you were advised to consult with an attorney, if desired, before signing below. This Attachment A will not become effective or enforceable until seven days after you sign it, during which time you can revoke it if you wish, by delivering a signed revocation letter within the seven-day period to A. Peter Lawson, General Counsel, Motorola, Inc., 1303 East Algonquin Rd., Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.
If you are employed in California, you expressly waive the protection of Section 1542 of the Civil Code of the State of California, which states that: "A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."


