FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20051018162150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On October 18, 2005, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 1, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Record Third-Quarter Sales and Earnings
Third-Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  October 18, 2005  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported record sales and earnings from continuing operations as shown below.
Third-quarter 2005 earnings from continuing operations includes income of $.39 per share from the items shown below.
During the quarter, the company continued to strengthen its balance sheet. The company generated operating cash flow of $1.1 billion, its 19 consecutive quarter of positive operating cash flow. In addition, the company reduced its total debt by $1.0 billion through repurchases of long-term debt in the market. Also, the company purchased $353 million of its outstanding shares pursuant to a
th
 
previously announced and ongoing share repurchase program. The company ended the quarter with a record net cash position of $8.4 billion.
1
"We are very excited about our record third-quarter results and overall performance year-to-date," said Ed Zander, chairman and CEO. "Excluding reorganization charges, all four of Motorola's businesses grew profitably during the quarter  a testament to the hard-working and dedicated talent across the global Motorola organization. We are especially pleased with the record results achieved by our Mobile Devices business for unit shipments, sales and profits. Motorola continues to deliver compelling products and solutions to our customers who embrace our vision of seamless mobility."
Operating Results
sales were $5.6 billion, up 41 percent compared with the year-ago quarter and a record for the business. Operating earnings were $597 million, compared with operating earnings of $394 million in the year-ago quarter, also a record for the business. Sales, earnings and market share were up as a result of "must-have" products that combine innovative style, leading technology and quality while enabling "must-do" experiences such as mobile video and mobile music.
Mobile Devices Segment
 
 
sales were $1.6 billion, up 7 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. The segment continued to deliver a comprehensive value proposition in access, core, platforms and services for wireless and wireline carriers. Operating earnings increased to $268 million, compared with $159 million in the year-ago quarter.
Networks Segment
sales were $1.6 billion, up 4 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Automotive market sales were lower, while sales to the other markets served by the segment increased 7 percent. Operating earnings decreased to $180 million, compared with $197 million in the year-ago quarter.
Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions Segment
In the Government/Public Safety Market:
In the Automotive Market:
 
In the Enterprise Market:
sales were $710 million, up 28 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $59 million, compared with $40 million in the year-ago quarter. During the quarter, Motorola extended its global footprint in digital video and voice and expanded its reach to the consumer through retail distribution channels.
Connected Home Solutions Segment
The company's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2005 is for sales of between $10.3 billion and $10.5 billion. The outlook for earnings per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2005 is in the range of $.32 to $.34.
Fourth-Quarter 2005 Outlook
Motorola's quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 4:00 p.m. Central Time (USA), on Tuesday, October 18, 2005. Motorola plans a live web-cast of the conference call over the Internet, featuring both audio and slides. Investors can view the web-cast at www.motorola.com/investor.
Conference Call and Web-cast
 
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
Consolidated GAAP Results
Net Cash = Cash, Cash Equivalents, Sigma Funds and Short-Term Investments minus Notes Payable minus Current Portion of Long-Term Debt minus Long-Term Debt.
Definition of Net Cash
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about Motorola's guidance for fourth-quarter 2005 sales and earnings. Motorola cautions the reader that the factors below and those on pages 70 through 80 of Motorola's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. These factors include: (1) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications, broadband and automotive industries; (2) the company's ability to continue to increase profitability and market share in its wireless handset business; (3) demand for the company's products, including products related to new technologies; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) risks related to dependence on certain key manufacturing suppliers; (6) risks related to the company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (7) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (8) the creditworthiness of the company's customers, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (9) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (10) the timing and levels at which design wins become actual orders and sales; (11) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (12) the company's ability to use its deferred tax assets; (13) the impact on the company from continuing hostilities in Iraq and conflict in other countries; (14) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; and (15) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters with the IRS.
Business Risks
 
Motorola is a Fortune 100 global communications leader that provides seamless mobility products and solutions across broadband, embedded systems and wireless networks. In your home, auto, workplace and all spaces in between, seamless mobility means you can reach the people, things and information you need, anywhere, anytime. Seamless mobility harnesses the power of technology convergence and enables smarter, faster, cost-effective and flexible communication. Motorola had sales of US $31.3 billion in 2004. For more information: www.motorola.com
About Motorola
# # #
Jennifer Weyrauch +1-847-435-5320 Jennifer.Weyrauch@motorola.com
Media Contact:
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.  Motorola, Inc. 2005
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales by reportable segment for the quarters and nine months ended October 1, 2005 and October 2, 2004.
 
Summarized below are the Company's operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters and nine months ended October 1, 2005 and October 2, 2004.


