FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20050801160906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers: Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Motorola Elects Miles D. White to Board of Directors
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  1 August 2005  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that Miles D. White, chairman and chief executive officer of Abbott has been elected to Motorola's board of directors effective 1 October.
"Miles has a wealth of management experience and will be a valuable asset to Motorola as a member of the board of directors," said Ed Zander, Motorola's chairman and chief executive officer. "He is well respected for his business acumen, and we look forward to benefiting from his knowledge, insight and capabilities. Miles also has demonstrated a significant commitment to the Chicago community, a commitment we share at Motorola."
Mr. White, 50, joined Abbott, a broad-based medical products and pharmaceutical company, in 1984. He was elected to Abbott's board of directors in 1998 and assumed his current positions in 1999. Prior to joining Abbott, Mr. White was a management consultant with McKinsey and Company.
An active member of the civic and business communities, Mr. White serves as deputy chairman of The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as a director on the Tribune Company's board of directors, chairman of The Economic Club of Chicago and a vice chairman of the board of trustees for The Field Museum in Chicago. He also is on the board of trustees of Northwestern University, and The Culver Educational Foundation.
Mr. White earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and an MBA from Stanford University.
Motorola is a Fortune 100 global communications leader that provides seamless mobility products and solutions across broadband, embedded systems and wireless networks. In your home, auto, workplace, and all spaces in between, seamless mobility means you can reach the people, things and information you need, anywhere, anytime. Seamless mobility harnesses the power of technology convergence and enables smarter, faster, cost-effective and flexible communication. Motorola had sales of US $31.3 billion in 2004. For more information: www.motorola.com.
About Motorola
# # #
Media Contacts:
Jennifer Weyrauch Motorola, Inc. +1-847-435-5320 jennifer.weyrauch@motorola.com


