FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060216161551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     
Approval of Motorola 2006 Incentive Plan
     On February 12, 2006, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the Motorola 2006 Incentive Plan ("MIP") which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.31. Below is a summary of the MIP, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the MIP
     The MIP has been established to retain employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward employees for strong business performance. The MIP, which replaces the Motorola 2005 Incentive Plan, is based on successive calendar year performance periods commencing January 1, 2006. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or its successor.
     All full-time or part-time Motorola employees in participating organizations and on the payroll of a participating country, other than participants in other annual group incentive or bonus plans, may participate in the MIP. The named executive officers may participate in the MIP.
     A target award is established for each participant at the beginning of a plan year based on a percentage of the participant's eligible earnings ranging from 0 to 135%. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated business performance goals and individual performance goals determined by the Compensation Committee. Business performance will be measured with respect to operating earnings, operating cash flow, revenue growth, quality and such other factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee. Awards will be calculated after the close of each plan year on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable following the close of a plan year.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit No. 10.31
Overview
The 2006 Motorola Incentive Plan has been established to retain Employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward Employees for strong business performance. The Plan is based on successive calendar-year performance periods commencing 1 January 2006. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan. Capitalized terms are defined in the "Definitions" section below.
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in this Plan, an individual must be:
 
The MIP Committee may modify the foregoing eligibility provisions to exclude groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Award Calculation
Awards will be calculated and paid after the close of each Plan Year on which the awards are based. The award amount will be based on Eligible Earnings, the Target Award Percentage, and the Business and Individual Performance Factors, as follows:
Individual Award  =  Eligible Earnings  x  Target Award Percentage  x  Business Performance Factor  x  Individual Performance Factor
Target Award Percentages, Business Performance Factors and Individual Performance Factors for each Plan Year shall be determined by the Compensation Committee. Business Performance Factors shall be based on Operating Earnings, Operating Cash Flow, Revenue Growth, Quality and such other factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee in its complete discretion.
Payout Process
 
Administration
 
General Provisions
 
 
The MIP Committee may modify the foregoing provisions as it deems necessary or appropriate to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
 
Definitions
: Motorola, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Compensation Committee
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off or similar transaction wherein a subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Company or a subsidiary.
Divested
: the MIP Committee will determine Eligible Earnings for each country, consistent with their respective legal and practical requirements. The MIP Committee may determine inclusions and exclusions from Eligible Earnings to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Eligible Earnings
: a person in an employee-employer relationship with the Company whose base wage or base salary is processed for payment by the payroll department(s) of the Company or a subsidiary and not by any other department of the Company. The term Employee shall exclude the following:
Employee
 
Such individuals shall be precluded from retroactive participation in the Plan even if a court or governmental or regulatory entity subsequently reclassifies such individuals as common law employees of the Company on a retroactive basis.
an approved leave of absence.
Leave of Absence:
: a committee to which the Compensation Committee may delegate certain powers and duties as described above. Unless otherwise determined, the MIP Committee will consist of the Senior Human Resources Officer, a senior Compensation Officer, and a senior Finance Officer. The MIP Committee may establish self-governance procedures such as by-laws, and shall keep minutes regarding all actions taken by the MIP Committee.
MIP Committee
: this Plan utilizes the definition of "retiree" and retirement that appears in the primary retirement plan covering the Participant.
Retired or Retirement
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
calculated according to GAAP, excluding one-time events called out in earnings releases, such as restructuring activities and sales of marketable securities. It also excludes stock compensation expense.
Operating Earnings:
calculated according to GAAP, which excludes gains on sales of investments and securities.
Operating Cash Flow:
: an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements set forth above.
Participant
the 2006 Motorola Incentive Plan.
Plan:
calendar-year performance periods commencing each 1 January.
Plan Year:
calculated as the year-over-year percentage increase in net sales after discounts according to GAAP, adjusted for the impact of mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures in excess of $50 million.
Revenue Growth:
 
combination of measures of customer satisfaction, reliability, and cost of poor quality, as defined by the MIP Committee.
Quality:
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16:
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.
Section 162(m):
If a term is used but not defined in the Plan, it has the meaning given such term in the most recent Omnibus Plan.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.


