FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060403154021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On March 31, 2006, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Motorola Inc. ("Motorola") Board of Directors approved the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2006 (the "2006 LRIP") which is effective as of January 1, 2006. The 2006 LRIP is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.36. Below is a summary of the 2006 LRIP, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2006 LRIP.
     The 2006 LRIP has been established to encourage outstanding individuals to serve as officers of Motorola and to furnish those officers maximum incentive to improve operations and increase profits. The 2006 LRIP, which replaces the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 2005 (the "2005 LRIP"), is based on successive multi-year performance periods. The first cycle, which covers a three-year performance period, commenced January 1, 2006. The 2006 LRIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or its successor. There shall be no further performance cycles under the 2005 LRIP.
     As recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Compensation Committee, Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of Motorola may participate in the 2006 LRIP. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Compensation Committee.
     A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance period based on a percentage of the participant's base pay in effect at that time. A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his or her target award. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated performance goals relating to cumulative improvement in economic profit and cumulative sales growth during each performance period. Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during the entire performance cycle, or a combination of both.
     Awards may be subject to total forfeiture if Motorola's total shareholder return for the entire performance cycle is not positive or partial or complete forfeiture if Motorola's total shareholder return does not meet or exceed the 55th percentile total shareholder return for the performance cycle for a defined comparator group. Awards will be calculated after the close of each performance cycle on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid
 
in shares of Motorola common stock as soon as administratively practicable following the close of a performance period. The Motorola shares will be issued under the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or its successor, or such other shareholder approved Motorola equity-based incentive plan as designated by the Compensation Committee.
     The Compensation Committee has the authority to administer, construe and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the 2006 LRIP.
     .
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (d) Exhibits.
                The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.36
Overview
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan
.
Eligibility
As recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Committee, Officers of the Company shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee. No employee who is not an Officer shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
Participation
Generally, Officers who become eligible to participate during the first three months of a multi-year performance cycle will participate in the full performance cycle. Officers who become eligible to participate after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis, except that Officers who become eligible to participate during the last three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
Participants who lose their eligibility to participate as a result of the lapse of status as an Officer after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis if they continue to be employed with the Company through the last day of the performance cycle. Participants who lose their eligibility to participate in the first three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
awards will be determined on the basis of the number of completed months of employment as an Officer during which the participant is actually working within the performance cycle.
Pro rata
Page 1 of 10
 
Performance Cycle
The Plan is based upon multi-year performance cycles selected by the Committee with an initial three-year performance cycle beginning on January 1, 2006
.
Performance Measures
Performance measures for each cycle will be determined by the Committee based on improvement in Economic Profit and Sales Growth during each multi-year performance cycle.
Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during the entire performance cycle, or a combination of both. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, performance to target for each year shall be divided by the number of years in the performance cycle and added together to determine the award for the entire performance cycle.
Awards will be subject to Committee discretion, up to and including complete forfeiture, if the Company's Total Shareholder Return for the entire performance cycle is not positive.
Awards may be subject to partial or complete forfeiture if the Company's Total Shareholder Return for the performance cycle does not meet or exceed the 55 percentile Total Shareholder Return for the performance cycle for a defined comparator group identified by the Committee.
th
Participants' Target & Maximum Award
A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance cycle based on a percentage of the participant's base pay rate in effect at that time. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, the target award for a Covered Employee for any succeeding year will be adjusted at the commencement of the next year in the performance cycle.
A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his/her target award.
Page 2 of 10
 
The Payout Process
Page 3 of 10
 
Situations Affecting The Plan
Change in Employment
Page 4 of 10
 
Page 5 of 10
 
Change in Control
Reservation And Retention Of Company Rights
Administration
It is expressly understood that the Committee has the discretionary authority to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
Page 6 of 10
 
General Provisions
Page 7 of 10
 
D
efinitions
: the closing price of one share of Motorola common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day before the date on which the Committee certifies the amount of the award earned.
Certification Date Value
: Motorola, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
: a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Covered Employee
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off or similar transaction wherein a Subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Company or a Subsidiary.
Divestiture
the Company's Net Operating Profit After Tax less a charge for cost of capital (determined by the Committee, in its discretion).
Economic Profit:
for each year during a performance cycle, the Company's Net Operating Profit After Tax shall be determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles but shall exclude the effect of all acquisitions with a purchase price of $250 million or more, all gains or losses on the sale of a business, any asset impairment equal to $100 million or more, and any other special items designated by the Committee.
Net Operating Profit After Tax:
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of the Company.
Officers:
Page 8 of 10
 
: the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2006.
Plan
: means retirement from Motorola or a Subsidiary as follows:
Retire or Retirement
Years of service will be based on the participant's Service Club Date.
: calculated as the year-over-year percentage increase in net sales. Net sales shall be determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles but shall exclude the effect of all acquisitions with a purchase price of $250 million or more, all gains or losses on the sale of a business, any asset impairment equal to $100 million or more, and any other special items designated by the Committee
Sales Growth
: an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
Subsidiary
: any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct
: for (a) U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan and (b) non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability
Page 9 of 10
 
for the Company stock or for a comparator company shall be calculated as follows:
Total Shareholder Return or TSR:
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Amendment, Modification, And Termination
Except as expressly provided by law, this Plan is provided at the Company's sole discretion and the Committee may modify or terminate it at any time, prospectively or retroactively, without notice or obligation for any reason; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced. In addition, there is no obligation to extend the Plan or establish a replacement plan in subsequent years.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.
Page 10 of 10


