FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060119164347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On January 19, 2006, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Record Fourth-Quarter and Record Full-Year Sales and Earnings
Fourth-Quarter Financial Highlights
Full-Year 2005 Financial Highlights
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  January 19, 2006  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported record sales and earnings from continuing operations as shown below.
 
Fourth-quarter 2005 earnings from continuing operations include earnings of $0.12 per share from the following items:
During the quarter, the company continued to strengthen its balance sheet, generating operating cash flow of $2.1 billion, its 20 consecutive quarter of positive operating cash flow. For the full year, the company generated operating cash flow of $4.6 billion and ended the year with a record net cash position of $10.5 billion.
th
1
"We are very pleased about our record fourth-quarter and full-year results," said Ed Zander, chairman and CEO. "Motorola continues to deliver compelling products and solutions to our customers, who are embracing our vision of seamless mobility".
Operating Results
Mobile Devices sales were $6.5 billion, up 30 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $663 million, compared with operating earnings of $532 million for the same period in 2004. For the full year, sales increased 25 percent, operating earnings increased 27 percent, and unit shipments increased 40 percent. Sales, earnings and market share were up once again as a result of "must have" products that combine innovative style, leading technology and quality while enabling "must do" experiences such as mobile video and mobile music.
Mobile Devices Segment Record-Setting Results
During the quarter:
 
 
sales were $1.8 billion, up 8 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $314 million, compared with $222 million in the year-ago quarter. For the full year, sales increased 6 percent and operating earnings increased 5 percent.
Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions Segment
During the quarter, in the Government/Public Safety Market:
During the quarter, in the Enterprise Market:
sales were $1.5 billion, down 4 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $225 million, compared with $275 million in the year-ago quarter. For the full year, sales increased 5 percent and operating earnings increased 38 percent. The segment continues to pursue
Networks Segment
 
growth with a comprehensive value proposition in access, core, platforms and services for wireless and wireline carriers.
sales were $675 million, up 1 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $60 million, compared with $43 million in the year-ago quarter. For the full year, sales increased 25 percent and operating earnings increased 27 percent. The segment extended its global footprint and expanded its technology platform to meet the exploding growth in advanced digital video, data and IP voice.
Connected Home Solutions Segment
During the quarter:
The company's outlook for the first quarter of 2006 is for sales of between $9.3 billion and $9.5 billion. The outlook for earnings per share is in the range of $.27 to $.29, excluding expected stock option expense of $.02 per share and excluding any potential additional recovery relating to Telsim
First Quarter 2006 Outlook
.
Motorola's quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 4:00 p.m. Central Time (USA), on Thursday, January 19, 2006. Motorola plans a live web-cast of the conference call over the Internet, featuring both audio and slides. Investors can view the web-cast at www.motorola.com/investor.
Conference Call and Web-cast
 
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
Consolidated GAAP Results
Net Cash = Cash, Cash Equivalents, Sigma Funds and Short-Term Investments minus Notes Payable minus Current Portion of Long-Term Debt minus Long-Term Debt.
Definition of Net Cash
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about Motorola's guidance for first quarter 2006 sales and earnings. Motorola cautions the reader that the factors below and those on pages 70 through 80 of Motorola's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. These factors include: (1) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications, broadband and automotive industries; (2) the company's ability to increase profitability and market share in its wireless handset business; (3) demand for the company's products, including products related to new technologies; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) risks related to dependence on certain key manufacturing suppliers; (6) risks related to the company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (7) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (8) the creditworthiness of the company's customers, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (9) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (10) the timing and levels at which design wins become actual orders and sales; (11) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (12) the company's ability to use its deferred tax assets; (13) the impact on the company from continuing hostilities in Iraq and conflict in other countries; (14) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (15) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters with the IRS, and (16) unforeseen negative consequences from the Company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions.
Business Risks
 
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of Seamless Mobility, the people of Motorola are committed to helping you get and stay connected simply and seamlessly to the people, information, and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks  along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.8 billion in 2005. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit
www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Weyrauch +1-847-435-5320 Jennifer.Weyrauch@motorola.com
Media Contact:
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.
Motorola, Inc. 2005
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales by reportable segment for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004.
 
Summarized below are the Company's operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004.


