FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060706154010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition
The information in this Form 8-K that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Effective as of the second quarter of 2006, the Company realigned its businesses into three operating business segments to strengthen its position in providing end-to-end network infrastructure solutions to private, public and enterprise customers worldwide. By streamlining its structure, the Company hopes to better leverage key current and next-generation technologies across its customer base. In addition, during the second quarter of 2006, the Company agreed to sell its automotive electronics business.
This Form 8-K is being filed in order to assist investors in making comparisons of the Company's historical financial information with future financial information. In accordance with GAAP, reclassifications have been made to conform previously-reported quarterly financial information for 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, as well as the annual financial information for 2005, to reflect the realigned business structure and to present the automotive electronics business as a discontinued operation.
As a result of these announcements, the Company will now report financial results for the following operating business segments:
     which will now include
Mobile Devices,
:
     which will now include
Networks and Enterprise,
:
     which will now include
Connected Home Solutions,
:
Attached hereto are Exhibit 99.1, reflecting adjusted tables for the four quarters of 2005, the first quarter of 2006 and the full year of 2005 and Exhibit 99.2 , reflecting adjusted tables for the four quarters of 2005, the first quarter of 2006 and the full year of 2005.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
Segment Information
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales and Operating earnings (loss) reclassified to reflect the Company's new operating business segments.
Although not included in the Company's total Net sales and Operating earnings (loss), the Net sales and Operating earnings (loss) for the automotive electronics business (which is reflected as a discontinued operation) have been provided for informational purposes.


