FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060418164604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On April 18, 2006, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended April 1, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces First-Quarter Sales and Earnings
First-Quarter Financial Highlights
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  April 18, 2006  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported the following sales and earnings.
First-quarter earnings in 2006 and 2005 include the following significant items:
During the quarter, the company continued to strengthen its balance sheet, generating operating cash flow of approximately $700 million, its 21consecutive quarter of positive operating cash flow. In addition, the company significantly accelerated its stock repurchase program during the quarter and repurchased approximately 37 million shares of its stock for approximately $815 million.
st
"We are very pleased about our results, which set a record for first-quarter sales and, excluding the significant items highlighted above, would have also been a record for first-quarter earnings. The company continues to profitably grow revenue and market share," said Ed Zander, chairman and CEO. "Our
 
compelling products and solutions are advancing our vision of seamless mobility. In order to further build on this success, we announced a streamlined corporate structure to improve efficiency and reduce costs as well as an agreement to sell Motorola's automotive business. With a sharpened strategic focus, Motorola is well-positioned for growth and success."
Operating Results
sales were $6.4 billion, up 45 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $702 million, compared with operating earnings of $440 million in the year-ago quarter. Motorola's portfolio of market-leading innovations  "must have" designs that deliver "must do" experiences such as mobile music and mobile video  is enabling the company's steady momentum in the global marketplace.
Mobile Devices Segment
sales were $1.54 billion, up 2 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $171 million, compared with operating earnings of $167 million in the year-ago quarter. Excluding restructuring charges of $8 million that are included in the 2006 first-quarter results, operating earnings increased 7 percent compared with the year ago quarter.
Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions Segment
 
sales were $1.43 billion, down 14 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $132 million, down compared with operating earnings of $234 million in the year-ago quarter, due to the decrease in sales and restructuring charges of $21 million in the first quarter of 2006. The segment continued to deliver a comprehensive value proposition in access, core, platforms and services for wireless and wireline carriers.
Networks Segment
sales were $710 million, up 7 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $15 million, compared with operating earnings of $19 million in the year-ago quarter.
Connected Home Solutions Segment
 
Excluding restructuring charges of $43 million that are included in the 2006 first quarter results, operating earnings increased 205 percent compared with the year ago quarter. Motorola continued to see strength in shipments of video, voice and data infrastructure and consumer premise solutions, further driving our market leadership.
The company's outlook for the second quarter of 2006 is for sales of between $10.3 billion and $10.5 billion. The outlook for earnings per share is in the range of $.30 to $.32. This outlook excludes expected stock compensation expense of $.02 per share, any potential additional recovery relating to Telsim, any earnings impact from the sale of the automotive electronics business, and further reorganization of business expense associated with global supply chain consolidation and other operating expense reduction initiatives.
Second Quarter 2006 Outlook
Motorola's quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 4:00 p.m. Central Time (USA) on Tuesday April 18, 2006. Motorola plans a live web-cast of the conference call over the Internet, featuring both audio and slides. Concurrently with the issuance of this press release, Motorola has posted on its website the slides to be used on the conference call. Investors can view the slides and join the web-cast at .
Conference Call and Web-cast
www.motorola.com/investor
 
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
Consolidated GAAP Results
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about Motorola's guidance for second quarter 2006 sales and earnings. Motorola cautions the reader that the factors below and those on pages 19 through 27 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. These factors include: (1) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (2) the company's ability to continue to increase profitability and market share in its wireless handset business; (3) demand for the company's products, including products related to new technologies; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (6) the impact on the company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures that are currently pending or may occur in the future; (7) risks related to the company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (8) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (9) the creditworthiness of the company's customers, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (10) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (11) the timing and levels at which design wins become actual orders and sales; (12) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (13) the impact on the company from continuing hostilities in Iraq and conflict in other countries; (14) the impact on the company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (15) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (16) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters with the IRS, and (17) unforeseen negative consequences from the company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions.
Business Risks
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of Seamless Mobility, the people of Motorola are committed to helping you get and stay connected simply and seamlessly to the people, information, and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks  along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.8 billion in 2005. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit
About Motorola
www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Weyrauch +1-847-435-5320 Jennifer.Weyrauch@motorola.com
Media Contact:
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.
Motorola, Inc. 2006
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales and operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters ended April 1, 2006 and April 2, 2005.


