FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20060719162138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On July 19, 2006, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended July 1, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Record Second-Quarter Sales and Earnings
Second-Quarter Financial Highlights
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  July 19, 2006  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported the following sales and earnings.
Second-quarter earnings from continuing operations in 2006 and 2005 include the following significant items:
During the quarter, the company continued to maintain a very strong balance sheet, generating operating cash flow from continuing operations of approximately $500 million, its 22consecutive quarter of positive operating cash flow. In addition, the company repurchased 39 million shares of its stock for $838 million.
nd
 
"Motorola continues to deliver excellent quarterly sales and earnings growth. With our solid financial performance and unrelenting focus on innovation and customer satisfaction, Motorola is among the fastest growing large-cap technology companies in the world," said Ed Zander, chairman and CEO. "In the second quarter, all of our businesses improved sales and grew profits sequentially versus the first quarter. Mobile Devices led the way, setting records for unit shipments, sales and profits. With our strong balance sheet, leading technologies and proven record of growth, Motorola is well-positioned to continue creating value for its shareholders."
Operating Results
sales were $7.14 billion, up 46 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $799 million, compared with operating earnings of $493 million in the year-ago quarter. The company also captured headlines by launching the highly anticipated MOTO Q, which is transforming consumer expectations and experiences for QWERTY devices. During the quarter, Mobile Devices also:
Mobile Devices Segment
sales were $2.90 billion, up 3 percent compared with the year-ago quarter and up 15 percent compared with the first quarter of 2006. Operating earnings decreased to $386 million, compared with operating earnings of $494 million in the year-ago quarter, but increased sequentially compared with operating earnings of $299 million in the first quarter of 2006. The second quarter of 2006 included restructuring charges of $37 million.
Networks and Enterprise Segment
 
Backlog for the segment increased for the second consecutive quarter. During the quarter, Networks and Enterprise also:
After the end of the quarter, Networks and Enterprise:
sales were $803 million, up 8 percent compared with the year-ago quarter and up 10 percent compared with the first quarter of 2006. Operating earnings increased to $56 million, compared with operating earnings of $33 million in the year-ago quarter and an operating loss of $11 million in the first quarter of 2006. Motorola continued to maintain and grow its market leadership with strong shipments of video, voice and data infrastructure and consumer devices. During the quarter, the segment:
Connected Home Solutions Segment
 
The company's outlook for the third quarter of 2006 is for sales of between $10.9 billion and $11.1 billion, an increase of 20 to 23 percent versus the prior-year quarter, driven primarily by continuing momentum in the Mobile Devices business.
Third Quarter 2006 Outlook
Motorola's quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 4:00 p.m. Central Time (USA) on Wednesday July 19, 2006. Motorola plans a live web-cast of the conference call over the Internet, featuring both audio and slides. Investors can view the slides and join the web-cast at .
Conference Call and Web-cast
www.motorola.com/investor
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
Consolidated GAAP Results
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, Motorola's guidance for third quarter 2006 sales. Motorola cautions the reader that the factors below and those on pages 19 through 27 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. These factors include: (1) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (2) the company's ability to continue to increase profitability and market share in its wireless handset business; (3) demand for the company's products, including products related to new technologies; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (6) unexpected negative consequences from the realignment of our Networks and Enterprise business; (7) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (8) the impact on the company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures that are currently pending or may occur in the future; (9) risks related to the company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (10) the creditworthiness of the company's customers, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (11) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (12) the timing
Business Risks
 
and levels at which design wins become actual orders and sales; (13) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (14) the impact on the company from continuing hostilities in Iraq and conflict in other countries; (15) the impact on the company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (16) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (17) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters with the IRS, and (18) unforeseen negative consequences from the company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions.
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of Seamless Mobility, the people of Motorola are committed to helping you get and stay connected simply and seamlessly to the people, information, and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks  along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $35.3 billion in 2005. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit
About Motorola
www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Weyrauch +1-847-435-5320
Media Contact:
Jennifer.Weyrauch@motorola.com
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.
Motorola, Inc. 2006
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales by reportable segment for the quarters and six months ended July 1, 2006 and July 2, 2005.
 
Summarized below are the Company's operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters and six months ended July 1, 2006 and July 2, 2005.


