FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20061017162705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On October 17, 2006, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Record Third-Quarter Sales
Third-Quarter Financial Highlights
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  October 17, 2006  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported sales, on a continuing operations basis, of $10.6 billion in the third quarter of 2006. Net earnings in the third quarter of 2006 were $0.39 per share, including $0.10 per share from discontinued operations and $0.29 per share from continuing operations, which included the items highlighted below:
During the quarter, the company continued to maintain a very strong balance sheet, generating operating cash flow from continuing operations of $1.6 billion, its 23consecutive quarter of positive operating cash flow. In addition, the company repurchased 62 million shares of its stock for $1.5 billion.
rd
 
"While our third-quarter sales were slightly below our guidance, we are pleased with our earnings. Each of our business segments and total Motorola improved operating margin versus the second quarter of 2006, excluding highlighted items. Mobile Devices again achieved record unit shipments and sequentially improved its market share versus the second quarter," said Ed Zander, chairman and CEO. "During the quarter, GSM infrastructure sales in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region were weaker than anticipated due to customer delays in capital spending. Additionally, sales of iDEN mobile devices were lower, caused by customer inventory reductions in anticipation of new dual-mode device shipments in the fourth quarter. With our strong balance sheet, leadership technologies and proven record of growth, Motorola is well positioned to continue creating value for its shareholders as one of the world's leading technology companies."
Operating Results
sales were $7.03 billion, up 26 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $819 million, including a charge of $16 million for acquisition-related in-process research and development, compared with operating earnings of $593 million in the year-ago quarter. Excluding highlighted items, the segment's operating margin improved to 11.9 percent versus 11.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006 and 11.0 percent in the year-ago quarter, as a result of new product launches, supply chain cost reductions and higher technology and platform licensing-related income. During the quarter, Mobile Devices also:
Mobile Devices Segment
 
sales were $2.78 billion, up slightly compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $378 million, including net reorganization of business charges of $51 million, compared to prior-year operating earnings of $465 million, due to a highly favorable product / regional mix of sales in the year-ago quarter. Operating margin, excluding highlighted items, was 15.4 percent versus 14.6 percent in the second quarter of 2006 and 18.7 percent in the prior-year quarter. During the quarter, Networks and Enterprise also:
Networks and Enterprise Segment
sales were $812 million, up 9 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $21 million, including charges of $42 million for acquisition-related in-process research and development and a legal reserve, compared to prior-year operating earnings of $39 million. Excluding highlighted items, the segment's operating margin improved to 7.8 percent versus 7.0 percent in the second quarter of 2006 and 5.8 percent in the year-ago quarter. During the quarter, the segment:
Connected Home Solutions Segment
 
Fourth Quarter 2006 Outlook
The company's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2006 is for sales of between $11.8 billion and $12.1 billion, an increase of 18 to 21 percent versus the prior-year quarter.
Conference Call and Web-cast
Motorola's quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 4:00 p.m. Central Time (USA) on Tuesday, October 17, 2006. Motorola plans a live web-cast of the conference call over the Internet, featuring both audio and slides. Investors can view the slides and join the web-cast at .
www.motorola.com/investor
Consolidated GAAP Results
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements and are based on Motorola's current expectations, which are subject to numerous risks and involve numerous uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, Motorola's outlook for sales in the fourth quarter of 2006 and expected timing of product introductions. Motorola cautions the reader that the factors below, as well as those on pages 19 through 27 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) the company's ability to continue to increase
Business Risks
 
profitability and market share in its wireless handset business; (2) the level of demand for the company's products, including products related to new technologies; (3) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (4) the company's ability to continue generating meaningful savings from supply-chain improvements, manufacturing consolidation and other cost-reduction initiatives; (5) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (6) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (7) unexpected negative consequences from the realignment of the company's Networks and Enterprise business; (8) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (9) the impact on the company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (10) risks related to the company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (11) the creditworthiness of the company's customers, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (12) variability in income generated from licensing the company's intellectual property; (13) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (14) the timing and levels at which design wins become actual orders and sales; (15) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (16) the impact on the company from continuing hostilities in Iraq and conflict in other countries; (17) the impact on the company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (18) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (19) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (20) unforeseen negative consequences from the company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions.
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of Seamless Mobility, the people of Motorola are committed to helping you get and stay connected simply and seamlessly to the people, information, and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks  along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $35.3 billion in 2005. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Weyrauch +1-847-435-5320
Media Contact:
Jennifer.Weyrauch@motorola.com
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.
Motorola, Inc. 2006
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales by reportable segment for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005.
 
Summarized below are the Company's operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005.


