FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20070717123453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Form 8-K that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Segment Realignment
As a result of the business realignment, the Company will now report financial results for the following operating business segments:
     , which now includes:
Mobile Devices
     which now includes
Home and Networks Mobility,
:
     which now includes
Enterprise Mobility Solutions,
:
This Form 8-K is intended to assist investors in making comparisons of the Company's historical financial information with future financial information. Reclassifications have been made to conform previously-reported segment financial information for 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, to reflect the realigned business structure. These changes do not affect the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
 
Immaterial Adjustments
The Company has identified two immaterial adjustments to be made to our previously filed consolidated financial statements.
The first adjustment has a minor offsetting impact on Net sales and Costs of sales, but has no impact on Gross margin, Operating earnings or any other financial statement line items. The immaterial adjustment relates solely to the elimination of inter-segment sales relating to a business in our Home and Networks Mobility segment. The immaterial adjustment impacts the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended 2004, 2005 and 2006. The adjustment has no impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The second adjustment has a minor impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, but has not impact on net cash provided by operating activities. The immaterial adjustment relates solely to a change in classification of certain deposits between Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments. The immaterial adjustment impacts the September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2006, December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007. The adjustment has no impact on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations or Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.
Attached hereto are: (i) Exhibit 99.1, reflecting adjusted tables for the four quarters of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, and (ii) Exhibit 99.2, reflecting updated financial information for 2004, 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007.
Segment Information
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales and Operating earnings (loss) reflecting the Company's new business operating segments and immaterial adjustments.

 
Exhibit 99.2
Summarized below are the changes to the Company's Net sales, Costs of sales and Gross margin due to the immaterial adjustment relating to an elimination of inter-segment sales relating to a business within our Home and Networks Mobility segment.
Summarized below are the changes to the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow and Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the immaterial adjustment relating to a change in classification of certain deposits between Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments. There was no impact on net cash provided by operating activities.
Impact to Consolidated Balance Sheets:
Impact to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:


