FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20070919170813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On September 18, 2007, Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") and David Devonshire, the former Chief Financial Officer of the Company, entered into an agreement (referred to herein as the "Agreement") with respect to Mr. Devonshire's separation from the Company. The Agreement replaces the Company's previously disclosed severance arrangement with Mr. Devonshire, which was entered into, along with other compensation arrangements, as an incentive for him to join the Company in March 2002. Set forth below is a summary of the key terms of the Agreement.
     Mr. Devonshire will separate from the Company on December 31, 2007 ("Separation Date"). The Company will continue to pay Mr. Devonshire his regular base pay in regular payroll installments through the Separation Date. Mr. Devonshire also will remain eligible to receive pro rata payments under the Company's annual and long-term incentive plans for performance periods ending in 2007.
     In addition, after Mr. Devonshire has signed, returned, and not revoked the Agreement, which includes a general release of all legal claims, the Company will pay Mr. Devonshire $225,000 (less applicable state and federal payroll tax deductions) in a lump sum. Following his Separation Date, Mr. Devonshire is required to sign a supplemental release (the "Supplemental Release") of all legal claims, other than those claims that cannot be waived by law, arising out of his employment with, or his separation from, the Company. After Mr. Devonshire has signed, returned, and not revoked the Supplemental Release, the Company will pay Mr. Devonshire $1,008,133.56 (less applicable state and federal payroll tax deductions) in a lump sum. The Agreement also requires Mr. Devonshire to cooperate in all investigations, litigation or other actions regarding matters of which he has knowledge, and to continue to comply with the non-disclosure, non-competition and non-solicitation provisions contained in his prior equity award agreements with the Company.
     The preceding summary of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, filed with this report as Exhibit 10.41 and incorporated herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.41
This is a complete and final Agreement between DAVID DEVONSHIRE (for yourself, your spouse and anyone acting for you) ("you"), and Motorola, Inc. (for itself, its subsidiaries and affiliates and anyone acting for it) ("Motorola") that resolves all matters between you and Motorola. This Agreement has been individually negotiated and has not been reached as part of a group incentive or other separation program. In consideration for the payments and benefits provided under this Agreement, you and Motorola agree to the following terms of your separation from Motorola:
     1. . All your duties and responsibilities as an employee, officer and/or director of Motorola and its subsidiaries and affiliates shall end effective August 31, 2007 (the "Transition Date"). Your employment by Motorola shall continue through December 31, 2007 ("Separation Date"). At Motorola's request, you shall execute any and all documents reasonably necessary to confirm the cessation of your service as a director and/or officer of Motorola and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
SEPARATION
     2. . Motorola will pay you at your regular base salary rate at regular payroll intervals, less applicable state and federal payroll deductions, between your Transition Date and Separation Date. The total gross amount of these payments is Two Hundred Ten Thousand Six Hundred Sixteen Dollars and Forty-Four Cents ($210,616.44) ("Transition Allowance"). Motorola also will pay you a lump sum in the amount of Two Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and No Cents ($225,000.00) within thirty (30) days after you have signed, returned and not revoked this Agreement and a lump sum Separation Allowance in the amount of One Million Eight Thousand One Hundred Thirty-Three Dollars and Fifty-Six Cents ($1,008,133.56), less applicable state and federal payroll tax deductions, within thirty (30) days after you have signed, returned and not revoked a supplemental release attached as Attachment A. Signature of Attachment A is a condition to your receiving the Separation Allowance and other consideration under this Agreement. The Transition and Separation Allowances, and the additional lump sum, include and exceed any paid time off, bonuses (other than an 8/12 pro rata 2007 MIP bonus, for which you will be eligible per the terms of the MIP Plan if other elected officers receive a 2007 MIP bonus and a 32/36 pro rata 2005-2007 LRIP bonus for which you will be eligible per the terms of the 2005 LRIP Plan if other elected officers receive a 2005-2007 LRIP bonus), or any other amounts that are unpaid as of your Separation Date. You will only be paid the amounts specifically identified in this Agreement and will not receive any additional payments from Motorola.
TRANSITION ALLOWANCE AND SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
     3. . In the event of your death after the effective date of this Agreement, your surviving spouse (or heirs if you are then unmarried) shall be paid any unpaid salary, lump sum payment and any unpaid Transition and Separation Allowances described in this Agreement. Payments or benefits, if any, following your death under any of the Motorola benefit or compensation plans shall be according to the terms of those plans and any elections and/or beneficiary designations previously made by you thereunder.
HEIRS/BENEFICIARIES
     4. .
BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PLANS
(a) The effect of your separation and this Agreement upon your participation in, or coverage under, any of Motorola's benefit or compensation plans, including but not limited to the Motorola Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan, the Motorola Elected Officers Life Insurance Plan, the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan for any given performance cycle, the Motorola Incentive Plan, the Motorola Management Deferred Compensation Plan, the Motorola Financial Planning Program, the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, any other applicable stock option plan and any restricted stock, stock unit or SAR agreements shall be governed by the terms of those plans and agreements. Motorola is making no guarantee, warranty or representation in this Agreement regarding any position that may be taken by any administrator or plan regarding the effect of this Agreement upon your rights, benefits or coverage under those plansPursuant to the Motorola Management Deferred Compensation Plan, your deferred compensation elections, and applicable law, your deferred compensation payments will commence in April, 2008.
.
(b) You shall receive coverage under the Motorola Post-Employment Health Benefits Plan, at your own expense, pursuant to Sections 2.82(iii) and 3.5(ii) thereof.
 
     5. . Effective on or within fourteen days after your Transition Date, Motorola will transfer to you ownership of your cellular phone. On that date you will assume responsibility for all insurance, maintenance, service and other fees related to this item, and Motorola will have no responsibility for it thereafter. The parties agree that any fair market value of such item will be calculated as of the Transition Date and that you are responsible for the payment of income tax due as a result of this transfer.
TRANSFER OF EQUIPMENT
     6. . You agree that you will not, directly or indirectly, individually or in concert with others, engage in any conduct or make any statement calculated or likely to have the effect of undermining, disparaging or otherwise reflecting poorly upon Motorola or its good will, products or business opportunities, or in any manner detrimental to Motorola, though you may give truthful and nonmalicious testimony if properly subpoenaed to testify under oath. Motorola agrees that neither Ed Zander, Tom Meredith, nor Ruth Fattori will, acting officially on Motorola's behalf, directly or indirectly, individually or in concert with others, engage in any conduct or make any statement calculated or likely to have the effect of undermining, disparaging or otherwise reflecting poorly upon you, or in any manner detrimental to you, though each may give truthful and nonmalicious testimony if properly subpoenaed to testify under oath.
NO DISPARAGEMENT
     7. . From your Transition Date, and for as long thereafter as shall be reasonably necessary, you agree to cooperate fully with Motorola in any investigation, negotiation, litigation or other action arising out of transactions in which you were involved or of which you had knowledge during your employment by Motorola. If you incur any business expenses in the course of performing your obligations under this paragraph, you will be reimbursed for the full amount of all reasonable expenses upon your submission of adequate receipts confirming that such expenses actually were incurred. Motorola will indemnify you for judgments, fines, penalties, settlement amounts and expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses) reasonably incurred in defending any actual or threatened action, lawsuit, investigation or other similar proceeding arising out of your employment with Motorola, provided that if the matter is a civil action, you acted in good faith and in a manner you reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of Motorola and if the matter is a criminal action, you had no reasonable cause to believe your conduct was unlawful (in each case as determined under Delaware General Corporation Law).
COOPERATION/INDEMNIFICATION
     8. . You acknowledge that you have entered into certain Stock Option Agreements and/or Stock Option Consideration Agreements and/or Restricted Stock Agreements and/or Restricted Stock Units Agreements with Motorolaas well as various other agreements for the protection of Motorola's confidential proprietary information, and agree that such agreements, including but not limited to the non-disclosure, non-competition and non-solicitation provisions therein, continue in full force and effect according to their terms.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
,
     9. . You agree to keep the existence and terms of this Agreement confidential, except to the extent required by law to disclose this information, or except as needed to be disclosed to your spouse, legal counsel, financial advisors, outplacement firm, creditors, or anyone preparing your tax returns.
CONFIDENTIALITY OF AGREEMENT
     10. . You further agree to return to Motorola by your Transition Date all Motorola property and confidential and/or proprietary information including the originals and all copies and excerpts of documents, drawings, reports, specifications, samples and the like that were/are in your possession at all Motorola and non-Motorola locations, including but not limited to information stored electronically on computer hard drives or disks.
RETURN OF MOTOROLA PROPERTY
     11. . You agree that you will immediately inform Motorola of (i) the identity of any new employment, start-up business or self-employment in which you have engaged or will engage between the Transition Date and December 31, 2009 (the "Notice Period"), (ii) your title in any such engagement, and (iii) your duties and responsibilities. You hereby authorize Motorola to provide a copy of this Agreement, excluding the economic terms, to any new employer or other entity or business by which you are engaged during the Notice Period. You further agree that during the Notice Period, you will provide such information to Motorola as it may from time to time reasonably request in order to determine your compliance with this Agreement.
NEW EMPLOYMENT
 
     12. .
BREACH OF AGREEMENT
(a) You acknowledge that Motorola's agreement to make the payments set forth in Paragraph 2 above is conditioned upon your faithful performance of your obligations pursuant to Paragraphs 7, 8, 10 and 11 of this Agreement, and you agree to repay to Motorola all sums received from Motorola under Paragraph 2, less One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), if you breach any of your obligations under Paragraphs 7, 8, 10 or 11 of this Agreement or the agreements referenced in Paragraph 8. You further agree that in addition to any other remedies available in law and/or equity, all of your vested and unvested stock options will terminate and no longer be exercisable, and for all stock options exercised within two years prior to your Separation Date or anytime after your Separation Date, you will immediately pay to Motorola the difference between the exercise price on the date of grant as reflected in the Award Document and the market price on the date of exercise (the "spread") for each affected stock option grant. The above remedies are in addition to and cumulative with any other rights and remedies Motorola may have pursuant to this Agreement and/or in law and/or equity, including the recovery of liquidated damages. In any dispute regarding this Agreement, each party will pay its own fees and costs.
(b) You acknowledge that the harm caused to Motorola by the breach or anticipated breach of Paragraph 7, 8, 10 or 11 of this Agreement will be irreparable and you agree Motorola may obtain injunctive relief against you in addition to and cumulative with any other legal or equitable rights and remedies Motorola may have pursuant to this Agreement or law, including the recovery of liquidated damages. You agree that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, as specified in paragraph 15 below, will, at the request of Motorola, be entered on consent and enforced by any such court having jurisdiction over you. This relief would occur without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
(c) This Agreement (which includes the agreements referenced in Paragraph 8) is your entire agreement with Motorola regarding the subject matter. No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by Motorola shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of such provision. The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and in the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be found by any court as specified in paragraph 15 below to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of your prior agreements, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties. You also agree that the court may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law. Further, you affirmatively state that you have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.
     13. . You and Motorola agree that, in exchange for the payments and other terms described above, Motorola is not admitting to any wrongdoing or unlawful action in its dealing with you and you fully and completely release Motorola and hold it harmless from any and all legal claims of any type to date arising out of your employment or the separation of your employment from Motorola or any notice regarding your separation, whether known or unknown, presently asserted or otherwise. This includes, but is not limited to, breach of any implied or express employment contracts or covenants; entitlement to any pay or benefits, including insurance and any claims under the Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan or any other retirement plan; claims for wrongful termination, public policy violations, defamation, emotional distress or other common law matters; or claims of discrimination based on race, sex, age (Age Discrimination in Employment Act), religion, national origin, disability, veteran's status, sexual preference, marital status or retaliation; or claims under the Family and Medical Leave Act. If you are employed in Pennsylvania, however, you are not waiving any claims under the Family and Medical Leave Act. You understand that by signing this General Release you are not releasing any claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file an administrative charge of discrimination.
NON-ADMISSION/GENERAL RELEASE
IF YOU ARE EMPLOYED IN CALIFORNIA, YOU EXPRESSLY WAIVE THE PROTECTION OF SECTION 1542 OF THE CIVIL CODE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, WHICH STATES THAT: "A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
 
     14. . You agree that you are signing this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily, that you have not been coerced or threatened into signing this Agreement and that you have not been promised anything else in exchange for signing this Agreement. You agree that if any part of this Agreement is found to be illegal or invalid, the rest of the Agreement will still be enforceable. You further agree that you have had sufficient time (at least twenty-one (21) days) to consider this Agreement and you were advised to consult with an attorney, if desired, before signing below. You understand and agree that any change, whether material or otherwise, to the initial terms of this Agreement shall not restart the running of this twenty-one (21) day period. This Agreement will not become effective or enforceable until seven days after you sign it, during which time you can revoke it if you wish, by delivering a signed revocation letter within the seven-day period to Jill A. Goldy, Corporate Vice President, Law  Labor and Employment, Motorola, Inc., 1303 East Algonquin Rd., Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Any alterations to this Agreement must be in writing, signed by both parties.
CONDITIONS OF AGREEMENT
     15. . You and Motorola agree that this Agreement is governed by the laws of Illinois, without giving effect to principles of Conflicts of Laws, and any legal action related to this Agreement shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois, USA. You accept the jurisdiction of these courts and consent to service of process from said courts solely for legal actions related to this Agreement.
GOVERNING LAW/VENUE
 
In consideration for the promises made by Motorola in the Agreement to which this is Attachment A, you fully and completely release Motorola and hold it harmless from any and all legal claims of any type to date arising out of your employment or the separation of your employment from Motorola, whether known or unknown, presently asserted or otherwise. This includes, but is not limited to, breach of any implied or express employment contracts or covenants; entitlement to any pay or benefits, including insurance and any claims under the Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan or any other retirement plan; claims for wrongful termination, public policy violations, defamation, emotional distress or other common law matters; or claims of discrimination based on race, sex, age (Age Discrimination in Employment Act), religion, national origin, disability, veteran's status, sexual preference, marital status or retaliation; or claims under the Family and Medical Leave Act. You understand by signing this General Release you are not releasing any claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file an administrative charge of discrimination. You further agree that you have had sufficient time (at least twenty-one (21) days) to consider the attached Agreement and you were advised to consult with an attorney, if desired, before signing below. This Attachment A will not become effective or enforceable until seven days after you sign it, during which time you can revoke it if you wish, by delivering a signed revocation letter within the seven-day period to Jill A. Goldy, Corporate Vice President, Law  Labor and Employment, Motorola, Inc., 1303 East Algonquin Rd., Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.
IF YOU ARE EMPLOYED IN CALIFORNIA, YOU EXPRESSLY WAIVE THE PROTECTION OF SECTION 1542 OF THE CIVIL CODE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, WHICH STATES THAT: "A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."


