FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20070730131643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers: Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  July 25, 2007  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced Anthony J. Vinciquerra, the president and chief executive officer of Fox Networks Group, and Greg Brown, president and chief operating officer of Motorola, have been elected to Motorola's board of directors.
"Tony and Greg are outstanding additions to our board," said Ed Zander, Motorola's chairman and chief executive officer. "Both bring extensive knowledge and insight from their diverse experiences  Tony in broadcast, cable and entertainment and Greg in telecommunications, software and wireless communications. Together, with the rest of the board, I welcome Tony and Greg and look forward to working with them as we position Motorola for future growth and success."
Vinciquerra, 52, was named president and chief executive officer of Fox Networks Group, a primary operating unit of News Corporation (NYSE: NWS) that includes the Fox Television Network, Fox Cable Networks, FOX Sports and Fox Networks Engineering & Operations, in June 2002. Mr. Vinciquerra joined Fox in December 2001 as president of the Fox Television Network.
Brown, 46, was named president and chief operating officer of Motorola in March 2007. He is responsible for overseeing all of Motorola's businesses: Mobile Devices, Home & Networks Mobility and Enterprise Mobility Solutions. In addition, he is responsible for the company's integrated supply chain operations and quality organizations. Mr. Brown joined Motorola in January 2003 and most recently served as president of Motorola's former Networks & Enterprise segment, a $13 billion business focused on providing market-leading end-to-end network infrastructure solutions to private, public and enterprise customers worldwide.
"We are very pleased with the additions of Tony and Greg to the Motorola board of directors," said Sam Scott, lead director of Motorola's board. "Tony's media and entertainment experience will serve Motorola well as we drive our vision of seamless mobility. As Ed's chief operating officer, Greg will provide invaluable perspectives to the board on the key opportunities and challenges of our global business."
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of seamless mobility, the people of
About Motorola
 
Motorola are committed to helping you connect simply and seamlessly to the people, information and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks  along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $42.8 billion in 2006. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit http://www.motorola.com.
Media Contact:
Jennifer Erickson Motorola, Inc. +1-847-435-5320 jennifer.erickson@motorola.com


