FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20070327152320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
This Amendment (this "Amendment") to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 21, 2007, originally filed on March 21, 2007 (the "Original Filing") is being filed to provide certain information called for by Item 5.02: "Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers" relating to the business experience, relationships and compensation of the affected officers and a related exhibit under Item 9.01 (c) "Exhibits". As required under SEC rules, this Amendment sets forth the complete text of Item 5.02 and Item 9.01(c), as amended. Specifically, this Amendment reflects the following changes: (i) Item 5.02 is amended to provide biographical information regarding Gregory Q. Brown and Thomas J. Meredith and to reflect the terms of Mr. Meredith's previously unavailable employment agreement with the Company to serve as acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective as of April 1, 2007 and (ii) Item 9.01 (c) is amended to reference Mr. Meredith's employment agreement. Except for the changes described above, no other changes have been made to the Original Filing.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 21, 2007, Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") announced certain organizational changes outlined below.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
* Previously filed
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
* Previously filed

 
EXHIBIT 10.39
     Executive, on behalf of his heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors and assigns, and the Company, on behalf of each of the Company's subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies and other affiliates, including entities in which the Company has a significant investment (collectively, the Company and such entities, the "") hereby agree to the following terms of Executive's employment with the Company (the ""):
Affiliated Group
Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
        March 27, 2007
 
ATTACHMENT A
The following Agreement is established to protect the trade secrets, intellectual property, confidential information, customer relationships and goodwill of Motorola, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries (the "Company") both as defined in the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (the "2006 Plan").
As consideration for the stock option(s) granted to me on the date shown above under the terms of the 2006 Plan ("the Covered Options"), and Motorola having provided me with Confidential Information as a Motorola appointed vice president or elected officer, I agree to the following:
(1) I agree that during the course of my employment and thereafter, I will not use or disclose, except on behalf of the Company and pursuant to its directions, any Company Confidential Information. Confidential Information means information concerning the Company and its business that is not generally known outside the Company. Confidential Information includes: (i) trade secrets; (ii) intellectual property; (iii) the Company's methods of operation and Company processes; (iv) information regarding the Company's present and/or future products, developments, processes and systems, including invention disclosures and patent applications; (v) information on customers or potential customers, including customer's names, sales records, prices, and other terms of sales and Company cost information; (vi) Company personnel data; (vii) Company business plans, marketing plans, financial data and projections; and (viii) information received in confidence by the Company from third parties. Information regarding products or technological innovations in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its affiliates is considering for broader use, shall not be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented.
(2) I agree that during my employment and for a period of one year following my termination of employment for any reason, I will not hire, recruit, solicit or induce, or cause, allow, permit or aid others to hire, recruit, solicit or induce, or to communicate in support of those activities, any employee of the Company who possesses Confidential Information of the Company to terminate his/her employment with the Company and/or to seek employment with my new or prospective employer, or any other company.
(3) I agree that during my employment and for a period of one year following the termination of my employment for any reason, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, manufactured by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer for such products or services and with which I had direct or indirect contact regarding those products or services or about which I learned Confidential Information at any time during the two years prior to my termination of employment with the Company.
(4) I agree that by accepting the Covered Options, if I violate the terms of paragraphs 1 through and including 3 of this Agreement, then, in addition to any other remedies available in law and/or equity, all of my vested and unvested Covered Options will terminate and no longer be exercisable, and for all Covered Options exercised within one year prior to the termination of my employment for any reason or anytime after termination of my employment for any reason, I will immediately pay to the Company the difference between the exercise price on the date of grant as reflected in the Award Document for the Covered Options and the market price of the Covered Options on the date of exercise (the "spread").
(5) The requirements of this agreement can be waived or modified only upon the prior written consent of Motorola, Inc. I acknowledge that the promises in this Agreement, not any employment of or services performed by me in the course and scope of that employment, are the sole consideration for the Covered Options. I agree the Company shall have the right to assign this Agreement which shall not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the Company assigns and successors.
 
(6) I agree that during my employment and for a period of one year following the termination of my employment for any reason, I will immediately inform the Company of (i) the identity of my new employer (or the nature of any start-up business, consulting arrangements or self-employment), (ii) my new title, and (iii) my job duties and responsibilities. I hereby authorize the Company to provide a copy of this Agreement to my new employer. I further agree to provide information to the Company as may from time to time be requested in order to determine my compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
(7) I acknowledge that the harm caused to the Company by the breach or anticipated breach of paragraphs 1, 2, and/or 3 of this Agreement will be irreparable and I agree the Company may obtain injunctive relief against me in addition to and cumulative with any other legal or equitable rights and remedies the Company may have pursuant to this Agreement, any other agreements between me and the Company for the protection of the Company's Confidential Information, or law, including the recovery of liquidated damages. I agree that any interim or final equitable relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, as specified in paragraph 10 below, will, at the request of the Company, be entered on consent and enforced by any such court having jurisdiction over me. This relief would occur without prejudice to any rights either party may have to appeal from the proceedings that resulted in any grant of such relief.
(8) With respect to the Covered Options, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company. No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of such provision. The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and in the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be found by any court as specified in paragraph 10 below to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties. I also agree that the court may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law. Further, I affirmatively state that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.
(9) I accept the terms of this Agreement and the above option(s) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms of this Agreement, the 2006 Plan, and any Award Document issued pursuant thereto. I am familiar with the 2006 Plan and agree to be bound by it to the extent applicable, as well as by the actions of the Company's Board of Directors or any committee thereof.
(10) I agree that this Agreement and the 2006 Plan, and any Award Document issued pursuant thereto, together constitute an agreement between the Company and me. I further agree that this Agreement is governed by the laws of Illinois, without giving effect to any state's principles of Conflicts of Laws, and any legal action related to this Agreement shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois, USA.
IN ORDER FOR THE ABOVE-REFERENCED OPTION(S) TO BE AWARDED, THIS AGREEMENT, SIGNED AND DATED, MUST BE RETURNED TO MOTOROLA c/o EXECUTIVE REWARDS NO LATER THAN .
                    
                    
 
ATTACHMENT B
     This Restricted Stock Unit Award ("") is awarded on April 2, 2007 (""), by Motorola, Inc. (the "" or "") to Thomas J. Meredith (the "").
Award
Date of Grant
Company
Motorola
Grantee
     WHEREAS, Grantee is receiving the Award under the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended (the "");
2006 Incentive Plan
          WHEREAS, the Award is being made as a special grant of Motorola restricted stock units authorized by the Board of Directors and the Board's Compensation and Leadership Committee (the ""); and
Compensation Committee
          WHEREAS, it is a condition to Grantee receiving the Award that Grantee electronically accept the terms, conditions and Restrictions applicable to the restricted stock units as set forth in this agreement.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company hereby awards restricted stock units to Grantee on the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The Company will not be obligated to pay Grantee any consideration whatsoever for forfeited Units.
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT C
Motorola, Inc. ("" or "the ") is pleased to grant you options to purchase shares of Motorola's common stock under the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (the ""). The number of options ("") awarded to you and the Exercise Price per Option, which is the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant, are stated above. Each Option entitles you to purchase one share of Motorola's common stock on the terms described below and in the Plan.
Motorola
Company
Plan
Options
Vesting and Exercisability
You cannot exercise the Options until they have vested.
 The Options will vest in accordance with the following schedule (subject to the other terms hereof):
Regular Vesting
 You may be subject to the Special Vesting Dates described below if your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary (as defined below) terminates.
Special Vesting
 You may exercise Options at any time after they vest and before they expire as described below.
Exercisability
Expiration
All Options expire on the earlier of (1) the Date of Expiration as stated above or (2) any of the Special Expiration Dates described below. Once an Option expires, you no longer have the right to exercise it.
Special Vesting Dates and Special Expiration Dates
There are events that cause your Options to vest sooner than the Regular Vesting schedule discussed above or to expire sooner than the Date of Expiration as stated above; provided, however, that for purposes of this award, a termination of employment shall not include a change in your work assignment from Executive Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer to any other position in the Motorola Finance organization or on the Motorola Senior Leadership Team or as a consultant to the CEO or any member of the Senior Leadership Team. Likewise for purposes of this agreement, a termination of employment shall not include a change in your employment status from a full-time employee to either a non-employee consultant to the Company or a non-employee director of the Company. The events are as follows:
      If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is terminated because of your Total and Permanent Disability (as defined below), Options that are not vested will automatically become fully vested upon your termination of employment or service. All your Options will then expire on the earlier of the first anniversary of your termination of employment or service because of your Total and Permanent Disability or the Date of Expiration stated above. Until that time, the Options will be exercisable by you or your guardian or legal representative.
Disability
      If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary is terminated because of your death, Options that are not vested will automatically become
Death
 
fully vested upon your death. All your Options will then expire on the earlier of the first anniversary of your death or the Date of Expiration stated above. Until that time, with written proof of death and inheritance, the Options will be exercisable by your legal representative, legatees or distributees.
 If a Change in Control of the Company occurs, and the successor corporation does not assume these Options or replace them with options that are at least comparable to these Options, then: (1) all of your unvested Options will be fully vested and (2) all of your Options will be exercisable until the Date of Expiration set forth above.
Change In Control
Further, with respect to any Options that are assumed or replaced as described in the preceding paragraph, such assumed or replaced options shall provide that they will be fully vested and exercisable until the Date of Expiration set forth above if you are involuntarily terminated (for a reason other than Cause) or if you quit for Good Reason within 24 months of the Change in Control. For purposes of this paragraph, the terms "", "" and "" are defined in the Plan.
Change in Control
Cause
Good Reason
 If Motorola or a Subsidiary terminates your employment or service because of Serious Misconduct (as defined below) all of your Options (vested and unvested) expire upon your termination.
Termination of Employment or Service Because of Serious Misconduct
 If you accept employment with another company in direct connection with the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Motorola or a Subsidiary, or if you remain employed by a Subsidiary that is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders in a spin-off or similar transaction (a ""), all of your unvested Options will automatically expire upon termination of your employment with Motorola, and all of your vested but not yet exercised Options will expire on the Date of Expiration stated above.
Change in Employment in Connection with a Divestiture
Divestiture
 If Motorola or a Subsidiary on its initiative, terminates your employment or service other than for Serious Misconduct or a Divestiture, all of your unvested Options will automatically expire upon termination and all of your vested but not yet exercised Options will expire on the Date of Expiration stated above.
Termination of Employment or Service by Motorola or a Subsidiary Other than for Serious Misconduct or a Divestiture
 If your employment or service with Motorola or a Subsidiary terminates for any reason other than that described above, including voluntary resignation of your employment or service, all of your unvested Options will automatically expire upon termination of your employment or service and all of your vested but not yet exercised Options will expire on the Date of Expiration stated above.
Termination of Employment or Service for any Other Reason than Described Above
Leave of Absence/Temporary Layoff
If you take a Leave of Absence from Motorola or a Subsidiary that your employer has approved in writing in accordance with your employer's Leave of Absence Policy and which does not constitute a termination of employment as determined by Motorola, or you are placed on Temporary Layoff (as defined below) by Motorola or a Subsidiary the following will apply:
 Options will continue to vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth above.
Vesting of Options
 You may exercise Options that are vested or that vest during the Leave of Absence or Temporary Layoff.
Exercising Options
 If your employment or service is terminated during the Leave of Absence or Temporary Layoff, the treatment of your Options will be determined as described under "Special Vesting Dates and Special Expiration Dates" above.
Effect of Termination of Employment or Service
Other Terms
 You must follow the procedures for exercising options established by Motorola from time to time. At the time of exercise, you must pay the Exercise Price for all of the Options being exercised and any taxes that are required to be withheld by Motorola or a Subsidiary in connection with the exercise. Options may not be exercised for less than 50 shares unless the number of shares represented by the Option is less than 50 shares, in which case the Option must be exercised for the remaining amount.
Method of Exercising
 
 Except to the extent provided by the Committee, Options are not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability
 Motorola or a Subsidiary is entitled to withhold an amount equal to the required minimum statutory withholding taxes for the respective tax jurisdictions attributable to any share of common stock deliverable in connection with the exercise of the Options. You may satisfy any minimum withholding obligation and any additional withholding, if desired, by electing to have the plan administrator retain Option shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the amount to be withheld.
Tax Withholding
Definition of Terms
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Plan.
"" means information concerning the Company and its business that is not generally known outside the Company, and includes (A) trade secrets; (B) intellectual property; (C) the Company's methods of operation and Company processes; (D) information regarding the Company's present and/or future products, developments, processes and systems, including invention disclosures and patent applications; (E) information on customers or potential customers, including customers' names, sales records, prices, and other terms of sales and Company cost information; (F) Company personnel data; (G) Company business plans, marketing plans, financial data and projections; and (H) information received in confidence by the Company from third parties. Information regarding products, services or technological innovations in development, in test marketing or being marketed or promoted in a discrete geographic region, which information the Company or one of its affiliates is considering for broader use, shall be deemed generally known until such broader use is actually commercially implemented.
Confidential Information
"" is the closing price for a share of Motorola common stock on the date of grant or date of exercise, whichever is applicable. The official source for the closing price is the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction as reported in the Wall Street Journal, Midwest edition.
Fair Market Value
"" means any misconduct identified as a ground for termination in the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or the human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct
"" means an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
Subsidiary
"" means for (x) U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan or a determination of a permanent and total disability under a state workers compensation statute and (y) non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability
"" means a layoff or redundancy that is communicated as being for a period of up to twelve months and as including a right to recall under defined circumstances.
Temporary Layoff
Consent to Transfer Personal Data
By accepting this award, you voluntarily acknowledge and consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph. You are not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However, failure to provide the consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. Motorola, its Subsidiaries and your employer hold certain personal information about you that may include your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary, salary grade, hire date, nationality, job title, any shares of stock held in Motorola, or details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan (""). Motorola and/or its Subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of your participation in the Plan, and Motorola and/or any of its Subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting Motorola in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. You authorize them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on your behalf to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit
Data
 
any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. You may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting Motorola; however, withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.
Acknowledgement of Discretionary Nature of the Plan; No Vested Rights
You acknowledge and agree that the Plan is discretionary in nature and limited in duration, and may be amended, cancelled, or terminated by Motorola or a Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, at any time. The grant of awards under the Plan is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right to receive an award in the future or to future employment. Nor shall this or any such grant interfere with your right or the Company's right to terminate such employment relationship at any time, with or without cause, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and any enforceable agreement between you and the Company. Future grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of Motorola, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grant, the amount of the award, vesting provisions, and the exercise price.
No Relation to Other Benefits/Termination Indemnities
Your acceptance of this award and participation under the Plan is voluntary. The value of your stock option awarded herein is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of your employment contract, if any. As such, the stock option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension, or retirement benefits or similar payments, notwithstanding any provision of any compensation, insurance agreement or benefit plan to the contrary.
Agreement Following Termination of Employment
As a further condition of accepting the Options, you acknowledge and agree that for a period of one year following your termination of employment or service, you will not hire, recruit, solicit or induce, or cause, allow, permit or aid others to hire, recruit, solicit or induce, or to communicate in support of those activities, any employee of Motorola or a Subsidiary who possesses Confidential Information of Motorola or a Subsidiary to terminate his/her employment with Motorola or a Subsidiary and/or to seek employment with your new or prospective employer, or any other company.
You agree that upon termination of employment with Motorola or a Subsidiary, and for a period of one year thereafter, you will immediately inform Motorola of (i) the identity of your new employer (or the nature of any start-up business or self-employment), (ii) your new title, and (iii) your job duties and responsibilities. You hereby authorize Motorola or a Subsidiary to provide a copy of this Award Document to your new employer. You further agree to provide information to Motorola or a Subsidiary as may from time to time be requested in order to determine your compliance with the terms hereof.
Substitute Stock Appreciation Right
Motorola reserves the right to substitute a Stock Appreciation Right for your Option in the event certain changes are made in the accounting treatment of stock options. Any substitute Stock Appreciation Right shall be applicable to the same number of shares as your Option and shall have the same Date of Expiration, Exercise Price, and other terms and conditions. Any substitute Stock Appreciation Right may be settled only in common stock.
Acceptance of Terms and Conditions
By accepting the Options, you agree to be bound by these terms and conditions, the Plan, any and all rules and regulations established by Motorola in connection with awards issued under the Plan, and any additional covenants or promises Motorola may require as a condition of the grant.
Other Information about Your Options and the Plan
You can find other information about options and the Plan on the Motorola website http://myhr.mot.com/pay_finances/awards_incentives/stock_options/plan_documents.jsp. If you do not have access to the website, please contact Motorola Global Rewards, 1303 E. Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, IL 60196 USA; GBLRW01@Motorola.com; 847-576-7885; for an order form to request Plan documents.


