FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20071130084817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02.       Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 29, 2007, the Board of Directors of Motorola, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), approved changes to the Company's senior management team. These changes were announced in a press release issued on November 30, 2007, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is described below.
On November 30, 2007, the Company announced that Edward J. Zander, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will step down from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective December 31, 2007. Mr. Zander will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Zander will not be nominated, or stand for re-election, to the Board of Directors at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Beginning January 1, 2008, Mr. Zander will continue as Strategic Advisor to the CEO, a non-officer employee, through January 5, 2009, the end of the term under Mr. Zander's employment agreement, during which time Mr. Zander will continue to receive his regular base salary and benefits and Mr. Zander's stock options and restricted stock units will continue to vest and be exercisable or settled in accordance with their terms. Mr. Zander will not be eligible to participate in the Company's 2008 ince ntive bonus plans, will not receive any new equity grants in 2008 and will forfeit any stock options and restricted stock units that have not vested as of January 5, 2009. A total of approximately $5.3 million of previously earned but deferred compensation will be paid out in accordance with the terms of the Company's deferred compensation plan, representing the current value of Mr. Zander's 2004 annual bonus which was earned in 2004 but deferred as required by the terms of Mr. Zander's employment agreement.
The Company also announced that Greg Brown, age 47, who has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since March 21, 2007, has been elected Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Brown has been a director of the Company since July 25, 2007. Prior to becoming President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, Mr. Brown served in various senior executive capacities with the Company beginning in January 2003. Before joining the Company, Mr. Brown served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Micromuse Inc. from February 1999 to December 2002.
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       
Exhibits
.
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Names Greg Brown Chief Executive Officer, Succeeding Edward J. Zander Who Remains Chairman
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  30 November 2007  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Greg Brown, 47, as Chief Executive Officer of Motorola, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Brown currently serves as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Brown will succeed Edward J. Zander as CEO, and Mr. Zander, 60, will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors until the annual meeting of stockholders in May 2008.
On behalf of Motorola's Board of Directors, Samuel C. Scott III, lead director, said, "I want to take this opportunity to thank Ed for his vision, expertise and tireless commitment to Motorola. We greatly appreciate his many contributions and wish him all the best in the years ahead. Today's decision is the culmination of a thoughtful and disciplined process of succession planning."
Scott added, "The Board is delighted that Greg will serve as CEO. We are confident that he will bring a combination of strategic insight, operational discipline, and inspirational leadership needed for accelerated and sustained growth."
"We are exceedingly fortunate to have a leader of Greg's caliber, vision and experience. He has been an invaluable partner and I am confident he is the right person to be the next CEO of Motorola and lead the Company through its multi-year transformation," said Zander. "Next year marks my 40
th
year in the technology industry. This is the right time for me to move on to the next phase in my life and spend more time with my family. I am grateful I had the opportunity to lead Motorola over the last four years. It's been a wonderful experience."
"I am privileged to become the CEO of Motorola," said Greg Brown. "This is a unique Company with strong technology, people and customers. I welcome this opportunity to lead Motorola successfully into the future. We have a lot to do and I am intensely focused on building shareholder value. I look forward to working closely with Ed to ensure a smooth transition."
Greg Brown Background
Since March 2007, Mr. Brown has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Motorola and was elected to the Company's Board of Directors earlier this year.
Prior to his role as President and COO, Mr. Brown headed four different businesses at Motorola. He also led the $3.9 billion acquisition of Symbol Technologies, the second largest transaction in Motorola's history and an important strategic move to strengthen Motorola's enterprise offering.
Additionally, Mr. Brown returned the automotive business to profitability, while also leading the divestiture of that business which was sold to Continental for $1.0 billion. He also led the government and public safety business for four years, substantially growing earnings over that time. Mr. Brown joined Motorola in 2003.
Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Brown was chairman and CEO of Micromuse Inc., a network management software company. Before that, he was President of Ameritech Custom Business Services and Ameritech New Media Inc. Before joining Ameritech in 1987, Mr. Brown held a variety of sales and marketing positions with AT&T for five years, resulting in 25 years of high-tech experience.
An active member of the civic and business communities, he was appointed by the White House to serve on President Bush's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) in May 2004. Mr. Brown is also a member of the board of directors for United Way, World Business Chicago, and the U.S.-China Business Council.
Mr. Brown received his bachelor's degree in economics from Rutgers University and is a member of the Rutgers board of overseers.
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation and leadership in wireless and broadband communications. Inspired by our vision of seamless mobility, the people of Motorola are committed to helping you connect simply and seamlessly to the people, information and entertainment that you want and need. We do this by designing and delivering "must have" products, "must do" experiences and powerful networks -- along with a full complement of support services. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $42.8 billion in 2006. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit
http://www.motorola.com
.
# # #
MOTOROLA and the stylized M Logo are registered in the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. Motorola, Inc. 2007


