FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20080424073638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On April 24, 2008, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 29, 2008. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces First-Quarter Financial Results
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  April 24, 2008  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported sales of $7.45 billion in the first quarter of 2008. The net loss from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2008 was $194 million, or $0.09 per share. The net loss from continuing operations includes net charges of $0.04 per share from highlighted items, primarily related to a charge associated with workforce reductions.
The Company had an operating cash outflow of $343 million and ended the quarter with a net cash* position of $3.5 billion.
"During the first quarter, we made an important strategic decision to separate the Company, creating two independent, publicly traded entities," said Greg Brown, president and chief executive officer. "Improving the product portfolio in Mobile Devices and positioning both businesses for future success remains a top priority. Our Home and Networks Mobility and Enterprise Mobility Solutions businesses continue to expand their portfolios of solutions, grow internationally and deliver solid financial results."
Operating Results
segment sales were $3.3 billion, down 39 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. The operating loss was $418 million, compared to an operating loss of $233 million in the year-ago quarter. During the quarter, the Company shipped 27.4 million handsets.
Mobile Devices
Mobile Devices highlights:
 
segment sales were $2.4 billion, up 2 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings were $153 million, compared to operating earnings of $167 million in the year-ago quarter.
Home and Networks Mobility
Home and Networks Mobility highlights:
segment sales were $1.8 billion, up 5 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $250 million, compared to operating earnings of $131 million in the year-ago quarter.
Enterprise Mobility Solutions
Enterprise Mobility Solutions highlights:
 
The Company's outlook for the second quarter is a loss from continuing operations of $0.02 to $0.04 per share. This outlook excludes any reorganization of business charges associated with the Company's operating expense reduction initiatives, as well as any other items of the variety highlighted by the Company in its quarterly earnings releases.
Second-Quarter 2008 Outlook
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
Consolidated GAAP Results
Motorola will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time (USA) on Thursday, April 24, 2008. The conference call will be web-cast live with audio and slides at www.motorola.com/investor.
Conference Call and Webcast
* Net Cash Cash and cash equivalents Sigma Fund (current and non-current) Short-term investments Notes payable and current portion of long-term debt Long-term debt.
Definitions
equals
plus
plus
minus
minus
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, Motorola's financial outlook for the second quarter of 2008. Motorola cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 18 through 27 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include,
Business Risks
 
but are not limited to: (1) the Company's ability to improve financial performance and increase market share in its Mobile Devices business; (2) the level of demand for the Company's products; (3) the Company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (4) the possible negative effects on the Company's business operations, financial performance or assets as it moves forward with plans to create two independent, publicly traded companies; (5) unexpected negative consequences from the Company's ongoing restructuring and cost-reduction activities; (6) the uncertainty of current economic and political conditions, as well as the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (7) the impact of tax relief, interest rate reduction and liquidity infusion efforts to stimulate the economy; (8) the Company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand; (9) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (10) the impact on the Company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (11) risks related to the Company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (12) the creditworthiness of the Company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (13) variability in income received from licensing the Company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the Company licenses intellectual property from others; (14) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings, including without limitation any relating to the Iridium project; (15) the impact on the Company from volatility in the commercial paper, debt and equity markets; (16) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; (17) the impact on the Company from continuing hostilities in other countries; (18) the impact on the Company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (19) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (20) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (21) negative consequences from the Company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications. The company develops technologies, products and services that make mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility solutions, digital set-tops, cable modems, mobile devices and Bluetooth accessories. Motorola is committed to delivering next generation communication solutions to people, businesses and governments. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.6 billion in 2007. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit http://www.motorola.com.
About Motorola
# # #
Jennifer Erickson Motorola, Inc. +1 847-435-5320
Media Contact:
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
Dean Lindroth Motorola, Inc. +1 847-576-6899
Investor Contact:
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's net sales and operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the quarters ended March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007.
 
= Cash and cash equivalents + Sigma Fund (current and non-current) + Short-term investments  Note payable and current portion of long-term debt  Long-term Debt
Net Cash
Cash Conversion Cycle = DSO + DIO  DPO
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)
* Excess Cash = Rolling 4 Quarter Average of Total Cash**  5% of Rolling Net Sales
** Total Cash = Cash and cash equivalents + Sigma Fund (current and non-current) + Short-term investments


