FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20080227112341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On February 21, 2008, Motorola, Inc. (the "") announced that Paul J. Liska, age 52, has been appointed to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective as of March 1, 2008. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Liska served as an Industrial Partner for various private equity firms, including MidOcean Partners, CVC Capital Holdings and Ripplewood Holdings LLC. During 2004 to 2006, Mr. Liska served in various capacities with WRC Media, Inc., a publisher of supplemental education materials, including Executive Chairman. Mr. Liska served as President, Credit and Financial Products at Sears Roebuck and Co., a retailer, from October 2002 to November 2003. The appointment of Mr. Liska was announced in a press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Company
     Thomas J. Meredith, who had been serving as Acting Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of the Company, will continue to serve as a non-management member of the Company's Board of Directors.
     In connection with Mr. Liska's appointment, the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the following compensatory arrangements covering Mr. Liska:
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 26, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Names Paul J. Liska Chief Financial Officer
SCHAUMBURG, Ill. 21 February 2008  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced Paul J. Liska has been named executive vice president and chief financial officer (CFO) of Motorola, effective March 1, 2008. Mr. Liska will report directly to Greg Brown, president and chief executive officer. Tom Meredith, the company's acting CFO will continue as a non-management board member and will work closely with Mr. Liska to ensure a smooth transition.
Brown stated, "Since appointing Tom Meredith as acting CFO, we have undertaken a thorough search process to identify candidates with financial, operational and strategic experience. We are fortunate that Paul has such a broad set of general management and CFO experiences. Paul will be a very valuable addition to our team and he is well-suited to drive forward the important work already underway to enhance our financial performance."
Brown added, "On behalf of the board and the management team, I want to thank Tom for his significant contributions over the last year. He has played an important role in improving Motorola's cash conversion cycle and cost structure. The changes implemented under Tom's leadership have helped position Motorola for renewed success. I am pleased that Tom will help through this key transition period," added Brown.
Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Liska served as an industrial partner for various private equity firms including MidOcean Partners, CVC Capital Holdings and Ripplewood Holdings LLC. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Liska served as executive chairman of US Freightways until its purchase by Yellow Roadway Corporation and served in various capacities with Weekly Reader Companies, including executive chairman. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Liska held several positions with Sears, Roebuck and Co., including president of credit and financial products and executive vice president and chief financial officer. Prior to joining Sears, Mr. Liska was executive vice president and chief financial officer of The St. Paul Companies from 1997 to 2001.
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications. The company develops technologies, products and services that make mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility solutions, digital set-tops, cable modems, mobile devices and Bluetooth accessories. Motorola is committed to delivering next generation communication solutions to people, businesses and governments. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.6 billion in 2007. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit .
http://www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Erickson Motorola, Inc. +1 847-435-5320
Media Contact:
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
Dean Lindroth Motorola, Inc. +1 847-576-6899
Investor Contact:
dean.lindroth@motorola.com


