FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20080205152358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensatory Arrangements with Gregory Q. Brown
     On January 31, 2008, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors (the "") of Motorola, Inc. (the ""), with the concurrence of the independent directors of the Board, approved the following amendments to compensatory arrangements covering Gregory Q. Brown in connection with his promotion effective January 1, 2008 to President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
Committee
Board
Company
 
Amendment to Employment Agreement of Thomas J. Meredith
     On January 30, 2008, the Committee approved an amendment to the amended and restated employment agreement (the "Agreement") between the Company and Thomas J. Meredith, the Company's Acting Financial Officer and Executive Vice President. The amendment increased Mr. Meredith's permitted use of the Company's aircraft from 125 flight hours for personal use to 165 flight hours for personal use.
     The Committee also approved amendments to the Agreement and adopted amended forms of Mr. Meredith's Stock Option Consideration Agreement and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to incorporate the Company's Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments Upon a Financial Restatement (the "Policy").
     Under the Policy, if the Company's financial statements are required to be restated as a result of intentional misconduct by an executive officer, the independent directors may, based upon the facts and circumstances surrounding the restatement, direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any bonus or incentive compensation paid, or cancel the stock-based awards granted, to such executive officer on or after January 1, 2008. In addition, the independent directors may also seek to recoup any gains realized after January 1, 2008 in respect of equity-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, regardless of when issued. The Policy includes a number of conditions, including that (1) the bonus or incentive compensation to be recouped was calculated based upon the financial results that were restated, (2) the executive officer in question engaged in the intentional misconduct, and (3) the bonus or incentive compensation calculated under the restated financial results is less than the amount actually paid or awarded.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.


