FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20080402143049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
2008 Motorola Incentive Plan
     On March 27, 2008, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") approved the 2008 Motorola Incentive Plan (the "2008 MIP"). Below is a summary of the key terms of the 2008 MIP.
     The 2008 MIP has been established to retain employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward employees for strong business performance. The 2008 MIP, which replaces the 2006 Motorola Incentive Plan, is based on successive calendar year performance periods commencing January 1, 2008. The 2008 MIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006.
     All full-time or part-time employees, including the named executive officers, of the Company in participating organizations and on the payroll of a participating country, other than participants in other annual group incentive or bonus plans, may participate in the 2008 MIP.
     A target award is established for each participant at the beginning of a plan year based on a percentage of the participant's eligible earnings ranging from 0 to 220%. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated business performance goals determined by the Committee and individual performance. Business performance will be measured based on operating earnings, operating cash flow, gross margin and such other factors as may be determined by the Committee. Awards will be calculated after the close of each plan year on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable following the close of a plan year.
     The preceding summary of the 2008 MIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the plan, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.52 and incorporated herein.
Gregory Q. Brown 2008 Incentive Award
     On March 27, 2008, the Committee approved the terms and conditions of an additional cash-based pay-for-performance annual incentive award for calendar year 2008 (the "2008 Award") for Gregory Q. Brown. As disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 5, 2008, the Committee previously established Mr. Brown's target award for the 2008 Award with a target payout at 130% of his eligible earnings. The 2008 Award will be based on achievement of stated business performance goals determined by the Committee. Business performance will be measured based on gross margin earned from new product introductions in the Company's Mobile Devices business and operating earnings of the Mobile Devices business. The 2008 Award is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2008 MIP and may be paid separately or together with any other award that Mr. Brown earns under the 2008 MIP.
Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 2006
     On March 27, 2008, the Committee approved amendments to the terms and conditions of the Company's Long Range Incentive Plan of 2006 (the "2006 LRIP"). The amendments to the 2006 LRIP (1) add the Company's common stock price as a performance measure under the plan and (2) clarify that the Chief Executive Officer's discretion to adjust the amount of a participant's award does not extend to covered employees within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
     The preceding summary of the amendments to the 2006 LRIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended and restated plan, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.37 and incorporated herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  .
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 1, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 10.37
Overview
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan
.
Eligibility
As recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Committee, Officers of the Company shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee. No employee who is not an Officer shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
Participation
Generally, Officers who become eligible to participate during the first three months of a multi-year performance cycle will participate in the full performance cycle. Officers who become eligible to participate after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis, except that Officers who become eligible to participate during the last three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
Participants who lose their eligibility to participate as a result of the lapse of status as an Officer after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis if they continue to be employed with the Company through the last day of the performance cycle. Participants who lose their eligibility to participate in the first three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
awards will be determined on the basis of the number of completed months of employment as an Officer during which the participant is actually working within the performance cycle.
Pro rata
Performance Cycle
The Plan is based upon multi-year performance cycles selected by the Committee with an initial three-year performance cycle beginning on January 1, 2006
.
Page 1 of 9
 
Performance Measures
Performance measures for each cycle will be determined by the Committee based on improvement in Economic Profit, Sales Growth, or Stock Price, or any combination of one or more of the foregoing, during each multi-year performance cycle.
Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during multiple years in the performance cycle or the entire performance cycle, or a combination of any of the foregoing. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, performance to target for each year shall be divided by the number of years in the performance cycle and added together to determine the award for the entire performance cycle.
Awards will be subject to Committee discretion, up to and including complete forfeiture, if the Company's Total Shareholder Return for the entire performance cycle is not positive.
Awards may be subject to partial or complete forfeiture if the Company's Total Shareholder Return for the performance cycle does not meet or exceed the 55 percentile Total Shareholder Return for the performance cycle for a defined comparator group identified by the Committee.
th
Participants' Target & Maximum Award
A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance cycle based on a percentage of the participant's base pay rate in effect at that time. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, the target award for a Covered Employee for any succeeding year will be adjusted at the commencement of the next year in the performance cycle.
A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his/her target award.
The Payout Process
Page 2 of 9
 
Situations Affecting The Plan
Change in Employment
Page 3 of 9
 
For purposes of determining a prorated payout, completed months of employment will include only those months in which the participant is actually working and is an Officer.
A prorated payout will be based on final performance results and paid as soon as administratively practicable after the end of a performance cycle.
Page 4 of 9
 
Change in Control
If the Company undergoes a Change in Control as defined in the Omnibus Plan, the treatment of outstanding awards under this Plan shall be determined by the terms of the Omnibus Plan in effect at the time of the commencement of the performance cycle.
Reservation And Retention Of Company Rights
Administration
It is expressly understood that the Committee has the discretionary authority to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
General Provisions
Page 5 of 9
 
Definitions
: the closing price of one share of Motorola common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day before the date on which the Committee certifies the amount of the award earned.
Certification Date Value
: Motorola, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
: a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Covered Employee
Page 6 of 9
 
: officers (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Persons
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off or similar transaction wherein a Subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Company or a Subsidiary.
Divestiture
the Company's Net Operating Profit After Tax less a charge for cost of capital (determined by the Committee, in its discretion).
Economic Profit:
for each year during a performance cycle, the Company's Net Operating Profit After Tax shall be determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles but shall exclude the effect of all acquisitions with a purchase price of $250 million or more, all gains or losses on the sale of a business, any asset impairment equal to $100 million or more, and any other special items designated by the Committee.
Net Operating Profit After Tax:
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of the Company.
Officers:
the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2006.
Plan:
: a restatement of the Company's financial results caused by the intentional misconduct of a Covered Person.
Policy Restatement
: the Company's Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments upon Financial Restatement, as it may be amended from time to time.
Recoupment Policy
: shall only apply in countries other than member states or acceding countries of the European Union and shall mean retirement from Motorola or a Subsidiary as follows:
Retire or Retirement
Page 7 of 9
 
Years of service will be based on the participant's Service Club Date.
: calculated as the year-over-year percentage increase in net sales. Net sales shall be determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles but shall exclude the effect of all acquisitions with a purchase price of $250 million or more, all gains or losses on the sale of a business, any asset impairment equal to $100 million or more, and any other special items designated by the Committee.
Sales Growth
: the average of the closing prices of one share of Motorola common stock on the New York Stock Exchange during the 20 trading days ending on the applicable measurement date.
Stock Price
: an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
Subsidiary
: any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct
: for (a) U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan and (b) non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability
Page 8 of 9
 
for the Company stock or for a comparator company shall be calculated as follows:
Total Shareholder Return or TSR:
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Amendment, Modification, And Termination
Except as expressly provided by law, this Plan is provided at the Company's sole discretion and the Committee may modify or terminate it at any time, prospectively or retroactively, without notice or obligation for any reason; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced. In addition, there is no obligation to extend the Plan or establish a replacement plan in subsequent years.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.
Page 9 of 9

 
Exhibit 10.52
Overview
The 2008 Motorola Incentive Plan has been established to retain Employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward Employees for strong business performance. The Plan is based on successive calendar-year performance periods commencing 1 January 2008. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan. Capitalized terms are defined in the "Definitions" section below.
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in this Plan, an individual must be:
The MIP Committee may modify the foregoing eligibility provisions to exclude groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
 
Award Calculation
Awards will be calculated and paid after the close of each Plan Year on which the awards are based. The award amount will be based on Eligible Earnings, the Target Award Percentage, and the Business and Individual Performance Factors, as follows:
Target Award Percentages, Business Performance Factors and Individual Performance Factors for each Plan Year shall be determined by the Compensation Committee. Business Performance Factors shall be based on Operating Earnings, Operating Cash Flow, Gross Margin and/or such other factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee in its complete discretion.
Payout Process
Administration
 
General Provisions
 
 
length of service with the Company, Participants who separate from employment (payroll) prior to the end of the Plan Year (for reasons other than death or Retirement) shall not receive any award attributable to that Plan Year.
The MIP Committee may modify the foregoing administrative provisions as it deems necessary or appropriate to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Definitions
: Motorola, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Compensation Committee
: officers (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Persons
 
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off or similar transaction wherein a subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of the Company or a subsidiary.
Divested
: the MIP Committee will determine Eligible Earnings for each country, consistent with their respective legal and practical requirements. The MIP Committee may determine inclusions and exclusions from Eligible Earnings to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Eligible Earnings
: a person in an employee-employer relationship with the Company whose base wage or base salary is processed for payment by the payroll department(s) of the Company or a subsidiary and not by any other department of the Company. The term Employee shall exclude the following:
Employee
Such individuals shall be precluded from retroactive participation in the Plan even if a court or governmental or regulatory entity subsequently reclassifies such individuals as common law employees of the Company on a retroactive basis.
net sales minus the cost of goods sold, calculated according to GAAP
Gross Margin:
.
an approved leave of absence.
Leave of Absence:
: a committee to which the Compensation Committee may delegate certain powers and duties as described above. Unless otherwise determined, the MIP Committee will consist of the Senior Human Resources Officer, a senior Compensation Officer, and a senior Finance Officer. The
MIP Committee
 
MIP Committee may establish self-governance procedures such as by-laws, and shall keep minutes regarding all actions taken by the MIP Committee.
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
calculated according to GAAP, excluding the effect of the following items, if and only if, such items are separately identified in the Company's quarterly earnings press releases: (i) extraordinary, unusual and/or non-recurring items of gain or loss, (ii) gains or losses on the disposition of a business or investment, (iii) changes in tax or accounting regulations or laws, or (iv) the effect of a merger or acquisition.
Operating Earnings:
calculated according to GAAP, excluding gains on sales of investments and securities.
Operating Cash Flow:
: an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements set forth above.
Participant
the 2008 Motorola Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan:
calendar-year performance periods commencing each 1 January.
Plan Year:
: a restatement of the Company's financial results caused by the intentional misconduct of a Covered Person.
Policy Restatement
: the Company's Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments upon Financial Restatement, as it may be amended from time to time.
Recoupment Policy
: this Plan utilizes the definition of "retiree" and retirement that appears in the primary retirement plan covering the Participant.
Retired or Retirement
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16:
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.
Section 162(m):
If a term is used but not defined in the Plan, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.


