FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20080311154545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Stuart C. Reed Separation Agreement
     On March 7, 2008, Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") and Stuart C. Reed entered into an agreement (referred to herein as the "Agreement") with respect to Mr. Reed's separation from the Company. Mr. Reed stepped down from his position as the Company's President, Mobile Devices on February 1, 2008 but will remain an Executive Vice President of the Company until April 4, 2008. His departure was announced in a press release issued on March 7, 2008, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Set forth below is a summary of the material terms of the Agreement.
     Mr. Reed will separate from the Company on December 31, 2008 (the "Separation Date"). He will receive his regular base salary in regular payroll installments from April 5, 2008 through the Separation Date, the total gross amount of which is $445,479. Mr. Reed remains eligible to receive a pro rata payment for calendar year 2008 under the Company's cash-based pay-for-performance annual incentive plan, which payment will be equal to three-twelfths of the value of his annual incentive plan award based on employment and Company performance for the full 2008 performance period. He will forfeit any other incentive awards for performance periods ending after December 31, 2007. In addition, equity previously granted to Mr. Reed will continue to vest through the Separation Date in accordance with the original terms of the grants after which all unvested equity awards will be forfeited.
     Pursuant to the Agreement, after the Separation Date, the Company will pay Mr. Reed a $1,504,521 lump sum within 30 days following Mr. Reed's agreement to a supplemental release of the Company from all legal claims arising out of his employment with or his separation from the Company, other than those claims that cannot be waived by law. The Agreement also requires Mr. Reed to cooperate in all investigations, litigation or other actions regarding matters of which he has knowledge, and to continue to comply with the non-disclosure, non-competition and non-solicitation provisions contained in his prior equity award agreements with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 11, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Departure of Stu Reed
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  March 7, 2008  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that Stu Reed, formerly the president of Motorola's Mobile Devices business, has decided to leave the Company, effective immediately.
Mr. Reed and his team launched a number of key initiatives important to the Mobile Devices business that the Company will continue to drive and expand upon.
Prior to Mr. Reed's role as Mobile Devices president, he led the transformation of our supply chain organization, which encompasses the global operations associated with procurement, new product introduction, manufacturing and customer fulfillment. In addition, Mr. Reed also helped the Company generate significant cost savings by consolidating suppliers and implementing a comprehensive supply chain strategy.
"We appreciate Stu's many contributions to Motorola and wish him the best in the future," said Greg Brown, president and chief executive officer.
About Motorola Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications. The company develops technologies, products and services that make mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility solutions, digital set-tops, cable modems, mobile devices and Bluetooth accessories. Motorola is committed to delivering next generation communication solutions to people, businesses and governments. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.6 billion in 2007. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit http://www.motorola.com.
# # #
Media Contact: Jennifer Erickson Motorola, Inc. +1 847-435-5320 jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
Investor Contact: Dean Lindroth Motorola, Inc. +1 847-576-6899 dean.lindroth@motorola.com


