FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20081030072601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
      
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
      On October 30, 2008, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  October 30, 2008  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported sales of $7.5 billion in the third quarter of 2008. The GAAP net loss from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2008 was $397 million, or a loss of $0.18 per share. This included net charges of $0.23 per share from highlighted items, which are outlined in the table at the end of this press release.
Greg Brown, Motorola's co-chief executive officer and CEO of Broadband Mobility Solutions, said, "The company had positive operating cash flow of $180 million and ended the quarter with a total cash* position of $7.6 billion. Our balance sheet and liquidity position give us agility and flexibility in today's weakened global economy and turbulent financial markets. In addition, we benefit from a global customer base and a broad portfolio of products and solutions that meet the needs of our customers."
Brown added, "In the third quarter, we continued to expand operating margins in our Home and Networks Mobility and Enterprise Mobility Solutions segments. While we will continue to prioritize investments on opportunities for growth, we are also improving our cost structure across the company by implementing further cost reductions. The initiatives announced today, together with prior actions, will result in total estimated annual savings of $800 million in 2009."
Sanjay Jha, Motorola's co-chief executive officer and CEO of Mobile Devices, said, "While our strategic intent to separate the company remains intact, we are no longer targeting the third quarter of 2009, primarily due to the macro-economic environment, stresses in the financial markets and the changes underway in Mobile Devices. We have made progress on various elements of the separation plan and will continue to prepare for a potential transaction at the
 
appropriate timeframe that serves the best interests of the company and its shareholders."
Jha added, "As part of our plan to rebuild Mobile Devices, we have announced significant actions to accelerate the consolidation of our product platforms and refocus our investment and market priorities. These efforts will result in a leaner organization with a more competitive and cost-effective product portfolio."
Operating results
segment sales were $3.1 billion, down 31 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. The segment reported an operating loss of $840 million, compared to an operating loss of $248 million in the year-ago quarter. The loss this quarter includes significant charges, primarily related to decisions and plans to consolidate silicon and software platforms and simplify the product portfolio.
Mobile Devices
Mobile Devices highlights:
segment sales were $2.4 billion, down 1 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $263 million, which represents an increase of 65 percent, compared to operating earnings of $159 million in the year-ago quarter.
Home and Networks Mobility
Home and Networks Mobility highlights:
 
segment sales were $2.0 billion, up 4 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased to $403 million, which represents an increase of 23 percent, compared to operating earnings of $328 million in the year-ago quarter.
Enterprise Mobility Solutions
Enterprise Mobility Solutions highlights:
Fourth-quarter and full-year 2008 outlook
The company expects to report earnings from continuing operations in the range of $0.02 to $0.04 per share in the fourth quarter of 2008 and full year earnings per share in the range of $0.05 to $0.07. This outlook excludes any reorganization of business charges associated with the company's operating expense reduction initiatives, as well as any other items of the variety highlighted by the company in its quarterly earnings releases.
Consolidated GAAP results
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
 
Highlighted Items
Conference call and webcast
Motorola will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 8 a.m., Eastern Time (USA) on Thursday, October 30, 2008. The conference call will be webcast live with audio and slides at .
www.motorola.com/investor
Definitions
 
Business Risks
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about: 1) cost savings from cost reduction actions; 2) the timeframe for our plans to separate the Company; and 3) Motorola's financial outlook for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008. Motorola cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 18 through 27 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) the Company's ability to improve financial performance and increase market share in its Mobile Devices business, particularly in light of anticipated slowing demand in the global handset market; (2) the level of demand for the Company's products, particularly in light of global economic conditions which may lead consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in
 
response to tighter credit and negative financial news; (3) the Company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (4) the possible negative effects on the Company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of its plan to create two independent, publicly traded companies; (5) unexpected negative consequences from the Company's ongoing restructuring and cost-reduction activities, including as a result of significant restructuring at the Mobile Devices business; (6) negative impact on the Company's business from the ongoing global financial crisis and severe tightening in the credit markets, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the Company's products; (ii) the viability of the Company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) reduced value of investments held by the Company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of Company's debt and equity investments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them, including as a result of additional impairments in the Company's Sigma Fund; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the Company's financial position; and (vi) increased cost to the Company to obtain financing; (7) the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (8) the Company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions; (9) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (10) the impact on the Company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (11) risks related to the Company's high volume of manufacturing and sales in Asia; (12) the creditworthiness of the Company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (13) variability in income received from licensing the Company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the Company licenses intellectual property from others; (14) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings; (15) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, including the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on the Company when competing for business in foreign markets; (16) the impact on the Company from continuing hostilities in countries where the Company does business; (17) the impact on the Company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (18) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (19) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (20) negative consequences from the Company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications. The company develops technologies, products and services that make mobile
 
experiences possible. Our portfolio includes communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility solutions, digital set-tops, cable modems, mobile devices and Bluetooth accessories. Motorola is committed to delivering next generation communication solutions to people, businesses and governments. A Fortune 100 company with global presence and impact, Motorola had sales of US $36.6 billion in 2007. For more information about our company, our people and our innovations, please visit .
www.motorola.com
# # #
Jennifer Erickson Motorola, Inc. +1 847-435-5320
Media contact:
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
Dean Lindroth Motorola, Inc. +1 847-576-6899
Investor contact:
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales by reportable business segment for the three and nine months ended September 27, 2008 and September 29, 2007.
 
Summarized below are the Company's Operating earnings (loss) by reportable business segment for the three and nine months ended September 27, 2008 and September 29, 2007.
 
= Total cash* - Total debt**
Net Cash
Cash Conversion Cycle = DSO + DIO  DPO
= (Accounts receivable + Long-term receivables) / (Three months of Net sales / 90)
Days sales outstanding (DSO)
= Inventory / (Three months of Cost of sales / 90)
Days sales in inventory (DSI)
= Accounts payable / (Three months of Cost of sales / 90)
Days payable outstanding (DPO)


