FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20090323130108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
2009 Motorola Incentive Plan
     On March 18, 2009, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Motorola, Inc. (the "Company") approved the 2009 Motorola Incentive Plan (the "2009 MIP") effective January 1, 2009. Below is a summary of the key terms of the 2009 MIP.
     The 2009 MIP has been established to retain employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward employees for strong business performance. The 2009 MIP, which replaces the 2008 Motorola Incentive Plan, is based on calendar year performance periods commencing January 1, 2009 and thereafter. The 2009 MIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended, or its successor.
successive
     All full-time or part-time employees of the Company and certain subsidiaries may participate in the 2009 MIP, subject to certain exceptions. All of the named executive officers participate in the 2009 MIP.
     A target award is established for each participant at the beginning of a plan year based on a percentage of the participant's eligible earnings (the "Target Award Percentage"). The Committee determines the Target Award Percentage for each participant who is (i) subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, (ii) subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or (ii) designated as a member of the Motorola Senior Leadership Team. For 2009 the Target Award Percentage ranges from 0 to 200%. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated business performance factors and individual performance factors determined by the Committee. Business performance factors are based on financial and non-financial factors as determined by the Committee. The Committee has determined that the business performance factors for 2009 are Controllable Free Cash Flow and Operating Earnings. Awards will be calculated after the close of each plan year on which the awards are based and the Committee will approve the aggregate dollar payout amount. All earned awards will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable during the calendar year immediately following the close of a plan year, unless a participant makes an irrevocable election under a deferred compensation arrangement that provides for payment at a different time.
     The preceding summary of the 2009 MIP and the 2009 MIP business performance factors are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the plan, and the description of the 2009 MIP business performance factors, which are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein.
Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 2009
     On March 18, 2009, the Committee approved the Company's Long Range Incentive Plan of 2009 (the "2009 LRIP") effective January 1, 2009. Below is a summary of the key terms of the 2009 LRIP.
     The 2009 LRIP has been established to encourage outstanding individuals to serve as officers of Motorola and to furnish those officers maximum incentive to improve operations and increase profits.
 
The 2009 LRIP, which replaces the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 2006 for cycles beginning on January 1, 2009, is based on successive multi-year performance periods. The first cycle, which covers a three-year performance period, commenced January 1, 2009. The 2009 LRIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended or its successor (the "Omnibus Plan").
       As recommended by the Co-Chief Executive Officers and approved by the Committee, Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of Motorola may participate in the 2009 LRIP. The Co-Chief Executive Officers are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee.
     A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance period based on a percentage of the participant's base pay in effect at that time. A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his or her target award. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated performance goals determined by the Committee based on one or more of the performance measures set forth in Section 14 of the Omnibus Plan. Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during the entire performance cycle, or a combination of both. The Committee has determined that the performance measure for the 2009  2011 performance cycle is Relative Total Shareholder Return.
     Awards will be calculated after the close of each performance cycle on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in cash or shares of Motorola common stock, as determined by the Committee, as soon as administratively practicable in the calendar year immediately following the last calendar year of a performance cycle, unless a participant makes an irrevocable election under a deferred compensation arrangement that provides for payment at a different time. The Motorola shares will be issued under the Omnibus Plan, or such other shareholder approved Motorola equity-based incentive plan as designated by the Committee.
     The Committee has the authority to administer, construe and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the 2009 LRIP.
     The preceding summary of the 2009 LRIP and the performance measure for the 2009-2011 performance cycle are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the plan and the description of Relative Total Shareholder Return, which are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, and are incorporated herein.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On February 24, 2009, the Board approved an amendment, subject to stockholder approval, to Section 6 of the Omnibus Plan, to permit a one time option exchange program provided that such stock option exchange is implemented within 12 months of the date of stockholder approval of the amendment. Stockholders will consider this amendment at the May 4, 2009 annual meeting of Motorola stockholders.
     On March 19, 2009, the Board approved an amendment to Section 16 of the Omnibus Plan to clarify that the Omnibus Plan prohibits any type of repricing of equity awards without the approval of the stockholders of Motorola.
     The preceding summary of the amendments to the Omnibus Plan are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the plan which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.5 and is incorporated herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  .
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
Overview
The 2009 Motorola Incentive Plan has been established to retain Employees through competitive rewards, attract premier talent, align individual efforts with business goals, and reward Employees for strong business performance. The Plan is based on successive calendar-year performance periods commencing 1 January 2009. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan. Capitalized terms are defined in the "Definitions" section below.
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in this Plan, an individual must be:
 
The MIP Committee may modify the foregoing eligibility provisions to exclude groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Award Calculation
Awards will be calculated and paid after the close of each Plan Year on which the awards are based. The award amount will be based on Eligible Earnings, the Target Award Percentage, and the Business and Individual Performance Factors, as follows:
Target Award Percentages for each Plan Year for Participants who are (i) subject to Section 162(m), (ii) subject to Section 16, or (iii) designated as a member of the Motorola Senior Leadership Team shall be determined by the Compensation Committee. Target Award Percentages for each Plan Year for all other Participants shall be determined by salary grade by country by the MIP Committee.
Business Performance Factors shall be based on financial and non-financial factors as may be determined by the Compensation Committee in its complete discretion.
Individual Performance Factors are based on the performance of the Participants in contributing to the Company's business performance. Managers will select an Individual Performance Factor for each Participant; provided, however, that Individual Performance Factors are limited to the range of 0x to 1.3x. The MIP Committee may determine additional limitations and guidelines regarding the selection of Individual Performance Factors.
Establishing Performance Measures and Goals
Annually, the Compensation Committee will establish the following for the Plan Year no later than the 90 day of the Plan Year:
th
 
The Compensation Committee will review progress against the performance measures periodically throughout the year. At the end of the Plan Year, the Committee will review full year performance and the corresponding management recommendations regarding each Business Performance Factor. The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, will determine the final Business Performance Factor.
Payout Process
General Provisions
 
Administration
 
 
 
Definitions
: Motorola, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Compensation Committee
: officers (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Persons
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin off or similar transaction wherein a subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of the Company or a subsidiary.
Divestiture
: the MIP Committee will determine Eligible Earnings for each country, consistent with their respective legal and practical requirements. The MIP Committee may determine inclusions and exclusions from Eligible Earnings to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the MIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Eligible Earnings
 
: a person in an employee-employer relationship with the Company whose base wage or base salary is processed for payment by the payroll department(s) of the Company or a subsidiary and not by any other department of the Company. The term Employee shall exclude the following:
Employee
Such individuals shall be precluded from retroactive participation in the Plan even if a court or governmental or regulatory entity subsequently reclassifies such individuals as common law employees of the Company on a retroactive basis.
an approved leave of absence.
Leave of Absence:
: a committee to which the Compensation Committee may delegate certain powers and duties as described above. Unless otherwise determined, the MIP Committee will consist of the Senior Human Resources Officer, a senior Compensation Officer, and a senior Finance Officer. The MIP Committee may establish self-governance procedures such as by-laws, and shall keep minutes regarding all actions taken by the MIP Committee.
MIP Committee
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
: an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements set forth above.
Participant
the 2009 Motorola Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan:
calendar-year performance periods commencing each 1 January.
Plan Year:
: a restatement of the Company's financial results caused by the intentional misconduct of a Covered Person.
Policy Restatement
 
: the Company's Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments upon Financial Restatement, as it may be amended from time to time.
Recoupment Policy
: this Plan utilizes the definition of "retiree" and retirement that appears in the primary retirement plan covering the Participant.
Retired or Retirement
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16:
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.
Section 
162(m)
:
If a term is used but not defined in the Plan, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.

Exhibit 10.2
1

Exhibit 10.3
O
verview
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended.
E
ligibility
Officers of the Company who are working directly in the Broadband Mobility Solutions business as recommended by the co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer, Broadband Mobility Solutions and Officers working directly in the Mobile Devices business as recommended by the co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer, Mobile Devices and approved by the Committee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The co-Chief Executive Officers and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee. No employee who is not an Officer shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
P
articipation
Generally, Officers who become eligible to participate during the first three months of a multi-year performance cycle will participate in the full performance cycle. Officers who become eligible to participate after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis, except that Officers who become eligible to participate during the last three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
Participants who lose their eligibility to participate as a result of the lapse of status as an Officer after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a basis if they continue to be employed with the Company through the last day of the performance cycle or if their employment terminates due to death, total and permanent disability, divestiture or they are involuntarily terminated for a reason other than cause during the third year of the performance cycle Participants who lose their eligibility to participate in the first three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
pro rata
awards will be determined on the basis of the number of completed months of employment as an Officer during which the participant is actually working within the performance cycle.
Pro rata
Page 1 of 9
 
P
erformance cycle
The Plan is based upon multi-year performance cycles selected by the Committee with an initial three-year performance cycle beginning on January 1, 2009
.
P
erformance measures
Performance measures for each cycle will be determined by the Committee based on one or more of the Performance Measures set forth in Section 14 of the Omnibus Plan.
Performance measures may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during multiple years in the performance cycle or the entire performance cycle, or a combination of any of the foregoing. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, performance to target for each year shall be divided by the number of years in the performance cycle and added together to determine the award for the entire performance cycle.
P
articipants' target & maximum award
A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance cycle based on a percentage of the participant's base pay rate in effect at that time. If performance measures are applied to performance in each year in the performance cycle, the target award for a Covered Employee for any succeeding year will be adjusted at the commencement of the next year in the performance cycle.
A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his/her target award.
T
he payout process
Page 2 of 9
 
S
ituations affecting the plan
   
Change in Employment
Page 3 of 9
 
A prorated payout will be based on final performance results and paid in the same manner and at the same time as other awards, as described above in "The Payout Process."
Page 4 of 9
 
  
Change in Control
If the Company undergoes a Change in Control as defined in the Omnibus Plan, the treatment of outstanding awards under this Plan shall be determined by the terms of the Omnibus Plan in effect at the time of the commencement of the performance cycle.
R
eservation and retention of company rights
A
dministration
It is expressly understood that the Committee has the discretionary authority to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
G
eneral provisions
Page 5 of 9
 
D
efinitions
: the closing price of one share of Motorola common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day before the date on which the Committee certifies the amount of the award earned.
Certification Date Value
Page 6 of 9
 
: Motorola, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
: a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Covered Employee
: officers (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Persons
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off or similar transaction wherein a Subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Company or a Subsidiary.
Divestiture
: the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of the Company.
Officers:
the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP) of 2009.
Plan:
: a restatement of the Company's financial results caused by the intentional misconduct of a Covered Person.
Policy Restatement
: the Company's Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments upon Financial Restatement, as it may be amended from time to time.
Recoupment Policy
: shall only apply in countries other than member states or acceding countries of the European Union and shall mean retirement from Motorola or a Subsidiary as follows:
Retire or Retirement
Page 7 of 9
 
Years of service will be based on the participant's Service Club Date.
: an entity of which Motorola owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
Subsidiary
: any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Code of Business Conduct, or human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct
: for (a) U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan and (b) non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
A
mendment, modification, and termination
Except as expressly provided by law, this Plan is provided at the Company's sole discretion and the Committee may modify or terminate it at any time, prospectively or retroactively, without notice or obligation for any reason; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced. In addition, there is no obligation to extend the Plan or establish a replacement plan in subsequent years.
A
pplicable law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.
Page 8 of 9

Exhibit 10.4

Exhibit 10.5
     1. . The purposes of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (the "Plan") are (i) to encourage outstanding individuals to accept or continue employment with Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola" or the "Company") and its Subsidiaries or to serve as directors of Motorola, and (ii) to furnish maximum incentive to those persons to improve operations and increase profits and to strengthen the mutuality of interest between those persons and Motorola's stockholders by providing them stock options and other stock and cash incentives.
Purpose
     2. . The Plan will be administered by a Committee (the "Committee") of the Motorola Board of Directors consisting of two or more directors as the Board may designate from time to time, each of whom shall satisfy such requirements as:
Administration
          (a) the Securities and Exchange Commission may establish for administrators acting under plans intended to qualify for exemption under Rule 16b-3 or its successor under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act");
          (b) the New York Stock Exchange may establish pursuant to its rule-making authority; and
          (c) the Internal Revenue Service may establish for outside directors acting under plans intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
The Compensation and Leadership Committee shall serve as the Committee administering the Plan until such time as the Board designates a different Committee.
The Committee shall have the discretionary authority to construe and interpret the Plan and any benefits granted thereunder, to establish and amend rules for Plan administration, to change the terms and conditions of options and other benefits at or after grant, to correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any option or other benefit granted under the Plan, and to make all other determinations which it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The determinations of the Committee shall be made
 
in accordance with their judgment as to the best interests of Motorola and its stockholders and in accordance with the purposes of the Plan. Any determination of the Committee under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee, in writing signed by all the Committee members. The Committee may authorize one or more officers of the Company to select employees to participate in the Plan and to determine the number of option shares and other awards to be granted to such participants, except with respect to awards to officers subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or officers who are, or who are reasonably expected to be, "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code ("Covered Employees") and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall include such officer or officers.
     3. . Participants may consist of all employees of Motorola and its Subsidiaries and all non-employee directors of Motorola; provided, however, the following individuals shall be excluded from participation in the plan: (a) contract labor (including without limitation black badges, brown badges, contractors, consultants, contract employees and job shoppers) regardless of length of service; (b) employees whose base wage or base salary is not processed for payment by a Payroll Department of Motorola or any Subsidiary; (c) any individual performing services under an independent contractor or consultant agreement, a purchase order, a supplier agreement or any other agreement that the Company enters into for service. Any corporation or other entity in which a 50% or greater interest is at the time directly or indirectly owned by Motorola and which Motorola consolidates for financial reporting purposes shall be a "Subsidiary" for purposes of the Plan. Designation of a participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate that person to receive a benefit in any other year or to receive the same type or amount of benefit as granted to the participant in any other year or as granted to any other participant in any year. The Committee shall consider all factors that it deems relevant in selecting participants and in determining the type and amount of their respective benefits.
Participants
     4. . There is hereby reserved for issuance under the Plan an aggregate of 80 million shares of Motorola common stock. In connection with approving this Plan, and contingent upon receipt of stockholder approval of this Plan, the Board of Directors has approved a merger of the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2003, Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2002, the Motorola Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2000, and the
Shares Available under the Plan
 
Motorola Amended and Restated Incentive Plan of 1998 (collectively, the "Prior Plans") into this Plan, so that on or after the date this Plan is approved by stockholders, the maximum number of shares reserved for issuance under this Plan shall not exceed (a) the total number of shares reserved for issuance under this Plan plus (b) the number of shares approved and available for grant under the Prior Plans as of the date of such stockholder approval plus (c) any shares that become available for issuance pursuant to the remainder of this section 4. If there is (i) a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any Stock Option or other benefit outstanding under this Plan, a Prior Plan or under the Motorola Share Option Plan of 1996 (the "1996 Plan"), prior to the issuance of shares thereunder or (ii) a forfeiture of any shares of restricted stock or shares subject to stock awards granted under this Plan, a Prior Plan or the 1996 Plan prior to vesting, then the shares subject to these options or other benefits shall be added to the shares available for benefits under the Plan (to the extent permitted under the terms of the Prior Plans or the 1996 Plan if the award originally occurred under such plan). Shares covered by a benefit granted under the Plan shall not be counted as used unless and until they are actually issued and delivered to a participant. Any shares covered by a Stock Appreciation Right (including a Stock Appreciation Right settled in stock which the Committee, in its discretion, may substitute for an outstanding Stock Option) shall be counted as used only to the extent shares are actually issued to the participant upon exercise of the right. In addition, any shares of common stock exchanged by an optionee as full or partial payment of the exercise price under any stock option exercised under the Plan, any shares retained by Motorola to comply with applicable income tax withholding requirements, and any shares covered by a benefit which is settled in cash, shall be added to the shares available for benefits under the Plan (to the extent permitted under the terms of the Prior Plans or the 1996 Plan if the award originally occurred under such plan). All shares issued under the Plan may be either authorized and unissued shares or issued shares reacquired by Motorola. All of the available shares may, but need not, be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options (as defined in Section 422 of the Code); provided, however, notwithstanding an Option's designation, to the extent that Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year with respect to Shares whose aggregate Fair Market Value exceeds $100,000 (regardless of whether such Incentive Stock Options were granted under this Plan, the Prior Plans or the 1996 Plan), such Options shall be treated as nonqualified Stock Options.
 
          Under the Plan, no participant may receive in any calendar year (i) Stock Options relating to more than 3,000,000 shares, (ii) Stock Appreciation Rights relating to more than 3,000,000 shares, (iii) Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units relating to more than 1,500,000 shares, (iv) Performance Shares relating to more than 1,500,000 shares, or (v) Deferred Stock Units relating to more than 50,000 shares. No non-employee director may receive in any calendar year Stock Options relating to more than 50,000 shares or Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units relating to more than 50,000 shares.
          The shares reserved for issuance and each of the limitations set forth above shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with section 16 hereof.
     5. . Benefits under the Plan shall consist of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Cash Awards, Annual Management Incentive Awards and Other Stock or Cash Awards, all as described below.
Types of Benefits
     6. . Stock Options may be granted to participants, at any time as determined by the Committee. The Committee shall determine the number of shares subject to each option and whether the option is an Incentive Stock Option. The exercise price for each option shall be determined by the Committee but shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of Motorola's common stock on the date the option is granted. Each option shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant. Options shall be exercisable at such time and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that no option shall be exercisable later than the tenth anniversary of its grant. The exercise price, upon exercise of any option, shall be payable to Motorola in full by (a) cash payment or its equivalent, (b) tendering previously acquired shares having a fair market value at the time of exercise equal to the exercise price or certification of ownership of such previously-acquired shares, (c) to the extent permitted by applicable law, delivery of a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to Motorola the amount of sale proceeds from the option shares or loan proceeds to pay the exercise price and any withholding taxes due to Motorola, and (d) such other methods of payment as the
Stock Options
 
Committee, at its discretion, deems appropriate.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, upon approval of the Company's stockholders, the Committee may provide for, and the Company may implement, a one time only option exchange offer, pursuant to which certain outstanding Stock Options could, at the election of the person holding such Stock Option, be tendered to the Company for cancellation in exchange for the issuance of a lesser amount of Stock Options with a lower exercise price, or other equity benefit as approved by the Committee, provided that such one time only option exchange is implemented within twelve months of the date of such stockholder approval. (Subject to stockholder approval)
     7. . Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs") may be granted to participants at any time as determined by the Committee. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion, substitute SARs which can be settled only in stock for outstanding Stock Options. The grant price of a substitute SAR shall be equal to the exercise price of the related option and the substitute SAR shall have substantive terms (duration) that are equivalent to the related option. The grant price of any other SAR shall be equal to the fair market value of Motorola's common stock on the date of its grant. An SAR may be exercised upon such terms and conditions and for the term as the Committee in its sole discretion determines; provided, however, that the term shall not exceed the option term in the case of a substitute SAR or ten years in the case of any other SAR and the terms and conditions applicable to a substitute SAR shall be substantially the same as those applicable to the Stock Option which it replaces. Upon exercise of an SAR, the participant shall be entitled to receive payment from Motorola in an amount determined by multiplying the excess of the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date of exercise over the grant price of the SAR by the number of shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. The payment may be made in cash or stock, at the discretion of the Committee, except in the case of a substitute SAR payment may be made only in stock. In no event shall the Committee cancel any outstanding SAR for the purpose of reissuing the right to the participant at a lower grant price or reduce the grant price of an outstanding SAR.
Stock Appreciation Rights
e.g.,
 
     8. . Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be awarded or sold to participants under such terms and conditions as shall be established by the Committee. Restricted Stock provides participants the rights to receive shares after vesting in accordance with the terms of such grant upon the attainment of certain conditions specified by the Committee. Restricted Stock Units provide participants the right to receive shares at a future date after vesting in accordance with the terms of such grant upon the attainment of certain conditions specified by the Committee. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee determines, including, without limitation, any of the following:
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
          (a) a prohibition against sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other encumbrance for a specified period;
          (b) a requirement that the holder forfeit (or in the case of shares or units sold to the participant, resell to Motorola at cost) such shares or units in the event of termination of employment during the period of restriction; or
          (c) the attainment of performance goals including without limitation those described in section 14 hereof.
All restrictions shall expire at such times as the Committee shall specify. In the Committee's discretion, participants may be entitled to dividends or dividend equivalents on awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
     9. . Deferred Stock Units provide a participant a vested right to receive shares of common stock in lieu of other compensation at termination of employment or service or at a specific future designated date. In the Committee's discretion, Deferred Stock Units may include the right to be credited with dividend equivalents in accordance with the terms and conditions of the units.
Deferred Stock Units
     10. . The Committee shall designate the participants to whom long-term performance stock ("Performance Shares") is to be awarded and determine the number of shares, the length of the performance period and the other terms and conditions of each such
Performance Shares
 
award; provided the stated performance period will not be less than 12 months. Each award of Performance Shares shall entitle the participant to a payment in the form of shares of common stock upon the attainment of performance goals and other terms and conditions specified by the Committee.
          Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of shares issued under a Performance Shares award may be adjusted by the Committee on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the number of shares earned upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any participant who is a Covered Employee (as defined in section 2 above). The Committee may, in its discretion, make a cash payment equal to the fair market value of shares of common stock otherwise required to be issued to a participant pursuant to a Performance Share award.
     11. . The Committee shall designate the participants to whom cash incentives based upon long-term performance ("Performance Cash Awards") are to be awarded and determine the amount of the award and the terms and conditions of each such award; provided the stated performance period will not be less than 12 months. Each Performance Cash Award shall entitle the participant to a payment in cash upon the attainment of performance goals and other terms and conditions specified by the Committee.
Performance Cash Awards
          Notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the amount to be paid under a Performance Cash Award may be adjusted by the Committee on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the amount earned under Performance Cash Awards upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any participant who is a Covered Employee (as defined in section 2 above) and the maximum amount earned by a Covered Employee in any calendar year may not exceed $10,000,000. The Committee may, in its discretion, substitute actual shares of common stock for the cash payment otherwise required to be made to a participant pursuant to a Performance Cash Award.
 
     12. . The Committee may designate Motorola executive officers who are eligible to receive a monetary payment in any calendar year based on a percentage of an incentive pool equal to 5% of Motorola's "consolidated earnings before income taxes" (as defined below) for the calendar year. The Committee shall allocate an incentive pool percentage to each designated executive officer for each calendar year. In no event may the incentive pool percentage for any one executive officer exceed 30% of the total pool.
Annual Management Incentive Awards
          For the purposes hereof, "consolidated earnings before income taxes" shall mean the consolidated earnings before income taxes of the Company, computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but shall exclude the effects of: the following items, if and only if, such items are separately identified in the Company's quarterly earnings press releases: (i) extraordinary, unusual and/or non-recurring items of gain or loss, (ii) gains or losses on the disposition of a business or investment, (iii) changes in tax or accounting regulations or laws, or (iv) the effect of a merger or acquisition.
          As soon as possible after the determination of the incentive pool for a Plan year, the Committee shall calculate the executive officer's allocated portion of the incentive pool based upon the percentage established at the beginning of the calendar year. The executive officer's incentive award then shall be determined by the Committee based on the executive officer's allocated portion of the incentive pool subject to adjustment in the sole discretion of the Committee. In no event may the portion of the incentive pool allocated to an executive officer who is a Covered Employee (as defined in section 2 above) be increased in any way, including as a result of the reduction of any other executive officer's allocated portion.
     13. . In addition to the incentives described in sections 6 through 12 above, the Committee may grant other incentives payable in cash or in common stock under the Plan as it determines to be in the best interests of Motorola and subject to such other terms and conditions as it deems appropriate; provided an outright grant of stock will not be made unless it is offered in exchange for cash compensation that has otherwise already been earned by the recipient.
Other Stock or Cash Awards
     14. . Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Cash Awards and other incentives under the Plan to a Covered Employee (as defined in section 2) may be made subject to the attainment of performance goals
Performance Goals
 
relating to one or more business criteria within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, including, but not limited to, cash flow; cost; ratio of debt to debt plus equity; profit before tax; economic profit; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings per share; operating earnings; economic value added; ratio of operating earnings to capital spending; free cash flow; net profit; net sales; sales growth; price of Motorola common stock; return on net assets, equity or stockholders' equity; market share; or total return to stockholders ("Performance Criteria"). Any Performance Criteria may be used to measure the performance of the Company as a whole or any business unit of the Company and may be measured relative to a peer group or index. Performance Criteria shall be calculated in accordance with the Company's financial statements (including without limitation the Company's "consolidated earnings before income taxes" as defined in section 12), generally accepted accounting principles, or under an objective methodology established by the Committee prior to the issuance of an award which is consistently applied. However, the Committee may not in any event increase the amount of compensation payable to a Covered Employee upon the attainment of a performance goal.
     15. . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant of an award, upon a Change in Control of Motorola, (i) all outstanding Stock Options and SARs shall become vested and exercisable; (ii) all restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall lapse; (iii) all performance goals shall be deemed achieved at target levels and all other terms and conditions met; (iv) all Performance Shares shall be delivered, all Performance Cash Awards, Deferred Stock Units and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid out as promptly as practicable; (v) all Annual Management Incentive Awards shall be paid out at target levels (or earned levels, if greater) and all other terms and conditions deemed met; and (vi) all Other Stock or Cash Awards shall be delivered or paid; provided, however, that the treatment of outstanding awards set forth above (referred to herein as "accelerated treatment") shall not apply if and to the extent that such awards are assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or are replaced with an award that preserves the existing value of the award at the time of the Change in Control and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting schedule applicable to the original award; provided, however, that with respect to any awards that are assumed or replaced, such assumed or replaced awards shall
Change in Control
 
provide for the accelerated treatment with respect to any participant that is involuntarily terminated (for a reason other than "Cause") or quits for "Good Reason" within 24 months of the Change in Control.
The term "Cause" shall mean, with respect to any participant, (i) the participant's conviction of any criminal violation involving dishonesty, fraud or breach of trust or (ii) the participant's willful engagement in gross misconduct in the performance of the participant's duties that materially injures the Company or a Subsidiary.
The term Good Reason shall mean, with respect to any participant, without such participant's written consent, (i) the participant is assigned duties materially inconsistent with his position, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company or a Subsidiary during the 90-day period immediately preceding a Change in Control, or the participant's position, authority, duties or responsibilities are materially diminished from those in effect during the 90-day period immediately preceding a Change in Control (whether or not occurring solely as a result of the Company ceasing to be a publicly traded entity), (ii) the Company reduces the participant's annual base salary or target incentive opportunity under the Company's annual incentive plan, such target incentive opportunity as in effect during the 90-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control, or as the same may be increased from time to time, unless such target incentive opportunity is replaced by a substantially equivalent substitute opportunity, (iii) the Company or a Subsidiary requires the participant regularly to perform his duties of employment beyond a fifty (50) mile radius from the location of the participant's employment immediately prior to the Change in Control, or (iv) the Company purports to terminate the Participant's employment other than pursuant to a notice of termination which indicates the Participant's employment has been terminated for "Cause" (as defined above) and sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Participant's employment.
 
A "Change in Control" shall mean:
     A Change in Control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, or any successor provision thereto, whether or not Motorola is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided that, without limitation, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Motorola representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Motorola's then outstanding securities (other than Motorola or any employee benefit plan of Motorola; and, for purposes of the Plan, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred as a result of the "beneficial ownership," or changes therein, of Motorola's securities by either of the foregoing), (b) there shall be consummated (i) any consolidation or merger of Motorola in which Motorola is not the surviving or continuing corporation or pursuant to which shares of common stock would be converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of Motorola in which the holders of common stock immediately prior to the merger have, directly or indirectly, at least a 65% ownership interest in the outstanding common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, or (ii) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of Motorola other than any such transaction with entities in which the holders of Motorola common stock, directly or indirectly, have at least a 65% ownership interest, (c) the stockholders of Motorola approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of Motorola, or (d) as the result of, or in connection with, any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets, proxy or consent solicitation (other than by the Board), contested election or substantial stock accumulation (a "Control Transaction"), the members of the Board immediately prior to the first public announcement relating to such Control Transaction shall thereafter cease to constitute a majority of the Board.
 
In the event that a payment or delivery of an award following a Change in Control would not be a permissible distribution event, as defined in Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code or any regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, then the payment or delivery shall be made on the earlier of (i) the date of payment or delivery originally provided for such benefit, or (ii) the date of termination of the participant's employment or service with the Company or six months after such termination in the case of a "specified employee" as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).
     16. .
Adjustment Provisions
          (a) In the event of any change affecting the number, class, market price or terms of the shares of common stock by reason of stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, disaffiliation of a Subsidiary, combination of shares, exchange of shares, stock rights offering, or other similar event, or any distribution to the holders of shares of common stock other than a regular cash dividend, (any of which is referred to herein as an "equity restructuring"), then the Committee shall make an equitable substitution or adjustment in the number or class of shares which may be issued under the Plan in the aggregate or to any one participant in any calendar year and in the number, class, price or terms of shares subject to outstanding awards granted under the Plan as it deems appropriate. Such substitution or adjustment shall equalize an award's intrinsic and fair value before and after the equity restructuring.
          (b) In direct connection with the sale, lease, distribution to stockholders, outsourcing arrangement or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Motorola or a Subsidiary (a "Divestiture"), the Committee may authorize the assumption or replacement of affected participants' awards by the spun-off facility or organization unit or by the entity that controls the spun-off facility or organizational unit following disaffiliation.
          (c) In the event of any merger, consolidation or reorganization of Motorola with or into another corporation which results in the outstanding common stock of Motorola
 
being converted into or exchanged for different securities, cash or other property, or any combination thereof, there shall be substituted, on an equitable basis as determined by the Committee in its discretion, for each share of common stock then subject to a benefit granted under the Plan, the number and kind of shares of stock, other securities, cash or other property to which holders of common stock of Motorola will be entitled pursuant to the transaction.
          (d) Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, or exchange of shares), the terms of outstanding awards may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Stock Options or SARs or cancel outstanding Stock Options or SARs in exchange for cash, other awards or Stock Options or SARs with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock Options or SARs without stockholder approval.
     17. . The Board of Directors or the Committee may authorize the issuance of benefits under this Plan in connection with the assumption of, or substitution for, outstanding benefits previously granted to individuals who become employees of Motorola or any Subsidiary as a result of any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization, upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate. Any substitute Awards granted under the Plan shall not count against the share limitations set forth in section 4 hereof, to the extent permitted by Section 303A.08 of the Corporate Governance Standards of the New York Stock Exchange.
Substitution and Assumption of Benefits
     18. . Each benefit granted under the Plan shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and each Stock Option and SAR shall be exercisable during the participant's lifetime only by the participant or, in the event of disability, by the participant's personal representative. In the event of the death of a participant, exercise of any benefit or payment with respect to any benefit shall be made only by or to the beneficiary, executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased participant or the person or persons to whom the deceased participant's rights under the benefit shall pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Subject to the approval of the Committee in its sole discretion, Stock Options may be transferable to members of the immediate family of the participant and to one or
Nontransferability
 
more trusts for the benefit of such family members, partnerships in which such family members are the only partners, or corporations in which such family members are the only stockholders. "Members of the immediate family" means the participant's spouse, children, stepchildren, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, siblings (including half brothers and sisters), and individuals who are family members by adoption.
     19. . Motorola shall be entitled to withhold the amount of any tax attributable to any amounts payable or shares deliverable under the Plan, after giving notice to the person entitled to receive such payment or delivery, and Motorola may defer making payment or delivery as to any award, if any such tax is payable, until indemnified to its satisfaction. In connection with the exercise of a Stock Option or the receipt or vesting of shares hereunder, a participant may pay all or a portion of any withholding as follows: (a) with the consent of the Committee, by electing to have Motorola withhold shares of common stock having a fair market value equal to the amount required to be withheld up to the minimum required statutory withholding amount; or (b) by delivering irrevocable instructions to a broker to sell shares and to promptly deliver the sales proceeds to Motorola for amounts up to and in excess of the minimum required statutory withholding amount. For restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards, no withholding in excess of the minimum statutory withholding amount will be allowed.
Taxes
     20. . No award shall be made under the Plan more than ten years after the date of its adoption by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that the terms and conditions applicable to any option granted on or before such date may thereafter be amended or modified by mutual agreement between Motorola and the participant, or such other person as may then have an interest therein.
Duration of the Plan
     21. . The Board of Directors or the Committee may amend the Plan from time to time or terminate the Plan at any time. However, unless expressly provided in an award or pursuant to the terms of any incentive plan implemented pursuant to this Plan, no such action shall reduce the amount of any existing award or change the terms and conditions thereof without the participant's consent; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its discretion, substitute SARs which can be settled only in stock for outstanding Stock Options without a participant's consent. The Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary to comply with applicable laws, regulations, or stock exchange rules.
Amendment and Termination
 
     22. . The fair market value of shares of Motorola's common stock at any time shall be determined in such manner as the Committee may deem equitable, or as required by applicable law or regulation.
Fair Market Value
     23. .
Other Provisions
          (a) The award of any benefit under the Plan may also be subject to other provisions (whether or not applicable to the benefit awarded to any other participant) as the Committee determines appropriate, including provisions intended to comply with federal or state securities laws and stock exchange requirements, understandings or conditions as to the participant's employment, requirements or inducements for continued ownership of common stock after exercise or vesting of benefits, or forfeiture of awards in the event of termination of employment shortly after exercise or vesting, or breach of noncompetition or confidentiality agreements following termination of employment, or effective as of January 1, 2008 cancellation of awards or benefits, reimbursement of compensation paid or reimbursement of gains realized, upon certain restatement of financial results.
          (b) In the event any benefit under this Plan is granted to an employee who is employed or providing services outside the United States and who is not compensated from a payroll maintained in the United States, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, modify the provisions of the Plan as they pertain to such individuals to comply with applicable law, regulation or accounting rules consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the Board of Directors or the Committee may, in its discretion, establish one or more sub-plans to reflect such modified provisions. All sub-plans adopted by the Committee shall be deemed to be part of the Plan, but each sub-plan shall apply only to Participants within the affected jurisdiction and the Company shall not be required to provide copies of any sub-plans to Participants in any jurisdiction which is not the subject of such sub-plan.
          (c) The Committee, in its sole discretion, may require a participant to have amounts or shares of common stock that otherwise would be paid or delivered to the participant
 
as a result of the exercise or settlement of an award under the Plan credited to a deferred compensation or stock unit account established for the participant by the Committee on the Company's books of account.
          (d) Neither the Plan nor any award shall confer upon a participant any right with respect to continuing the participant's employment with the Company; nor shall they interfere in any way with the participant's right or the Company's right to terminate such relationship at any time, with or without cause, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and any enforceable agreement between the employee and the Company.
          (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any award, and the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine whether cash, other securities, or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares, or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
          (f) Payments and other benefits received by a participant under an award made pursuant to the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a participant's compensation for purposes of determining the participant's benefits under any other employee benefit plans or arrangements provided by the Company or a Subsidiary, notwithstanding any provision of such plan to the contrary, unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in writing.
          (g) The Committee may permit participants to defer the receipt of payments of awards pursuant to such rules, procedures or programs it may establish for purposes of this Plan. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent that awards under the Plan are subject to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, then the Plan as applied to those amounts shall be interpreted and administered so that it is consistent with such Code section.
     24. . The Plan and any actions taken in connection herewith shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois (without regard to any state's conflict of laws principles). Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.
Governing Law
 
     25. . The Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on February 23, 2006, subject to stockholder approval. The Plan and any benefits granted thereunder shall be null and void if stockholder approval is not obtained at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
Stockholder Approval


