FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20100729071002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On July 29, 2010, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended July 3, 2010. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Motorola Announces Second-Quarter 2010 Financial Results
 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., July 29, 2010 -- Financial Highlights:
 
                 
Second-quarter sales of $5.4 billion
                 
Second-quarter GAAP earnings of $0.07 per share, compared to GAAP earnings of $0.01 per share in second quarter 2009; non-GAAP earnings per share* of $0.09 compared to earnings of $0.03 per share in second quarter 2009
                 
Total cash** of $8.3 billion; completed $500 million debt tender offer
                 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions sales of $1.9 billion; GAAP operating earnings of $181 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $292 million
                 
Mobile Devices sales of $1.7 billion; shipped 8.3 million handsets, including 2.7 million smartphones; GAAP operating earnings of $87 million; non-GAAP operating loss of $109 million
                 
Networks sales of $967 million; GAAP operating earnings of $178 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $191 million
                 
Home sales of $886 million; GAAP operating earnings of $29 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $57 million
                 
Announced sale of majority of Networks business to Nokia Siemens Networks
 
Motorola
, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported sales of $5.4 billion in the second quarter of 2010. The GAAP earnings in the second quarter of 2010 were $162 million, or $0.07 per share, which compares to GAAP earnings of $26 million, or $0.01 per share, in the second quarter of 2009. Non-GAAP financial information excludes after-tax costs of approximately $0.02 per share in the second quarter of both 2010 and 2009 related to stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items. Details on these non-GAAP adjustments and the use of non-GAAP measures are included later in this press release.
 
During the quarter, the Company generated positive operating cash flow of $242 million, reduced long-term debt through a $500 million tender offer and ended the quarter with a total cash** position of $8.3 billion. Net cash*** increased to $4.9 billion from $4.6 billion in the first quarter.
 
Greg Brown, Motorola co-chief executive officer and CEO of Motorola Solutions, said, "In the second quarter, our Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks businesses continued to deliver best-in-class market leadership and financial returns, with strong operating earnings and excellent cash generation."
 
"In addition, last week, we announced that Nokia Siemens Networks will acquire the majority of our Networks business.
We are very proud of the operational and financial performance of our Networks business and are excited to have reached this agreement to combine our Networks team with such an industry leader,"
 
 
Brown continued. "This is great news for our customers, our investors and our people and will
allow us to sharpen our strategic focus on providing mission-and business-critical solutions for our government, public safety and enterprise customers."
 
"The Droid X launch has been very well received and is seen as one of the best smartphones in the market today with a 4.3 inch high-resolution display, Adobe flash and an 8 megapixel camera.  As we continue to execute on our business strategy, we are in a strong position to continue improving our share in the rapidly growing smartphone market and improving our operating performance," said Sanjay Jha, Motorola co-chief executive officer and CEO of Motorola Mobility. "The Mobile Devices and Home businesses remain focused on developing next-generation products to capitalize on the convergence of mobile experiences and home entertainment."
 
Operating Results
 
Mobile Devices
segment sales were $1.7 billion, down 6 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $87 million, which included income from a significant legal settlement of $228 million, compared to an operating loss of $287 million in the year-ago quarter. The non-GAAP operating loss was $109 million, compared to an operating loss of $239 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Mobile Devices highlights:
 
                 
Introduced DROID X, a pocket-sized home theater with a 4.3 inch high-resolution display and powerful 1 GHz processor, garnering excitement and attention among media and consumers
                 
Introduced i1, the world's first push-to-talk Android-powered smartphone; Motorola FLIPOUT with MOTOBLUR and  Motorola CHARM with MOTOBLUR, bringing our current smartphone portfolio to 12 devices
                 
Broadened choice of Android applications for consumers in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico with the announcement of SHOP4APPS, Motorola's mobile application storefront
 
Home
segment sales were $886 million, down 13 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $29 million, compared to $18 million in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $57 million, compared to $49 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Home highlights:
 
                 
Launched 3D TV set-top solution in North America and a next-generation HD IP set-top that supports fixed-mobile convergence solutions with KDDI in Japan
                 
Introduced Motorola M3 Media Server family, which delivers multimedia content and services across television, PCs and mobile devices
 
 
                 
Introduced Medios suite of software solutions for content distribution across multi-screen environments and advanced on-demand services
                 
Launched DCX700, a next-generation, cost-effective HD set-top solution that supports applications for whole-home content sharing
 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions
segment sales were $1.9 billion, up 10 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $181 million, compared to operating earnings of $141 million in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $292 million, compared to $225 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions highlights:
 
                 
Achieved year-over-year sales growth in all four regional markets
                 
Received multi-million dollar contracts in North America, including P25 system wins for counties in Georgia, Maryland, New York and Washington
                 
Announced ES400, the smallest and lightest enterprise digital assistant, which provides field workers access to business-critical applications to overcome productivity challenges
                 
Awarded the first phase of a private broadband 700MHz LTE network for public safety in the San Francisco Bay area, the first of its kind in the United States
 
Networks
segment sales were $967 million, down 2 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $178 million, compared to $92 million in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $191 million, compared to $147 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Networks highlights:
 
                 
Announced sale of majority of Networks assets to Nokia Siemens Networks
                 
Completed Phase I TD-LTE field trials with China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
                 
Introduced unique, cost-effective common platform base station solution that can be used for both WiMAX and LTE
                 
Introduced software release for KDDI to reuse existing CDMA base stations for LTE
 
Third-Quarter 2010 Outlook
 
The Company's outlook for the third quarter of 2010 is for earnings of $0.10 to $0.12 per share. This outlook includes the Networks business and excludes stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense of approximately $0.04 per share, as well as charges associated with items of the variety typically highlighted by the Company in its quarterly earnings releases.
 
 
Consolidated GAAP Results
 
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
 
 
Highlighted Items, Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Intangible Assets Amortization Expense
 
The table below includes highlighted items, stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense for the second quarter of 2010.
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Motorola will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 8 a.m. (U.S. Eastern Time) on Thursday, July 29. The conference call will be webcast live with audio and slides at www.motorola.com/investor.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
In addition to the GAAP results included in this presentation, Motorola has also included non-GAAP measurements of results. Motorola has provided these non-GAAP measurements to help investors better understand Motorola's core operating performance, enhance comparisons of Motorola's core operating performance from period to period and allow better comparisons of Motorola's operating performance to that of its competitors. Among other things, the Company's management uses these operating results, excluding the identified items, to evaluate the performance of its businesses and to evaluate results relative to certain incentive compensation targets. Management uses operating results excluding these items because it believes this measurement enables it to make better period-to-period evaluations of the financial performance of its core business operations. The non-GAAP measurements are intended only as a supplement to the comparable GAAP measurements and the Company compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of non-GAAP measurements by using GAAP measures in conjunction with the non-GAAP measurements. As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measurements in addition to, and not in substitution for or as superior to, measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Highlighted items:
The Company has excluded the effects of highlighted items (and any reversals of highlighted items recorded in prior periods) from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements because the Company believes that these historical items do not reflect expected future operating earnings or expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the Company's current operating performance or comparisons to the Company's past operating performance.
 
Stock-based compensation expense:
The Company has excluded stock-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees and the Company believes such compensation contributed to the revenue earned during the periods presented and also believes it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, the Company continues to evaluate its performance excluding stock-based compensation expense primarily because
 
it represents a significant non-cash expense. Stock-based compensation expense will recur in future periods.
 
Intangible assets amortization expense:
The Company has excluded intangible assets amortization expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements, primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense and because the Company evaluates its performance excluding intangible assets amortization expense. Amortization of intangible assets is consistent in amount and frequency but is significantly affected by the timing and size of the Company's acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to the Company's revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to the Company's future period revenues as well. Intangible assets amortization expense will recur in future periods.
 
Details of the above items and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measurements to the corresponding GAAP measurements can be found at the end of this press release.
 
Business Risks
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates", "estimates" and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.  Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the timing and financial impact of the launch of new products and Motorola's financial outlook for the third quarter of 2010. Motorola cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 17 through 29 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola's website at www.motorola.com, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by Motorola and factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) possible negative effects on the Company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of its plan to create two independent, publicly traded companies; (2) the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (3) the Company's ability to improve financial performance in its Mobile Devices business, including the success of its smartphone strategy; (4) Mobile Device's dependency on third-
 
party operating systems and software, including Google's Android operating system; (5) the level of demand for the Company's products, particularly if consumers, businesses and governments defer purchases in response to tighter credit; (6) the Company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (7) unexpected negative consequences from the Company's restructuring and cost reduction activities, including as a result of significant restructuring at the Mobile Devices business; (8) negative impact on the Company's business from global economic conditions, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the Company's products; (ii) the viability of the Company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) changes in the value of investments held by the Company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of the Company's debt and equity investments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the Company's financial position; (vi) difficulties or increased costs for the Company in obtaining financing; and (vii) the inability of the Company to sell accounts receivable and long-term receivables in volumes and on terms comparable to historical practices; (9) the Company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions; (10) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (11) the impact on the Company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (12) risks related to the Company's high volume of manufacturing in Asia and business operations in foreign countries; (13) the creditworthiness of the Company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (14) variability in income received from licensing the Company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the Company licenses intellectual property from others; (15) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings; (16) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, including the negative impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar on the Company when competing for business in foreign markets; (17) the impact on the Company from continuing hostilities in countries where the Company does business; (18) the impact on the Company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (19) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (20) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (21) negative consequences from the Company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Definitions
 
*
Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes from GAAP earnings per share the effects of stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items
 
** Total cash = Cash and cash equivalents + Sigma Fund (current and non-current) + Short-term investments
 
*** Net cash = Total cash - Total debt (Notes payable and current portion of long-term debt + Long-term debt)
 
**** Amounts attributable to Motorola, Inc. common shareholders
 
***** Due to rounding, EPS impact may not be equal to the sum of individual items
 
About Motorola
 
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and is focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices that provide compelling experiences, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
Media contact:
Jennifer Erickson
Motorola
+1 847-435-5320
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
 
Investor contact:
Dean Lindroth
Motorola
+1 847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 
MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are registered in the US Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.  Motorola, Inc. 2010. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
*Total cash = Cash and cash equivalents + Sigma Fund (current and non-current) + Short-term investments
**Total debt = Notes payable and current portion of long-term debt + Long-term debt
***Net cash = Total cash - Total debt
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales by reportable segment for the three months and six months ended July 3, 2010 and July 4, 2009.
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the three months and six months ended July 3, 2010 and July 4, 2009.
 
 
 
* Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* EPS impact may not add up due to rounding
 


