FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20101028071047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                     
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                     
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                     
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                     
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information in this
Form 8-K
that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On October 28, 2010, Motorola, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 2, 2010. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits. The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Motorola Announces Third-Quarter 2010 Financial Results
 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., October 28, 2010 -- Financial Highlights:
 
                 
Third-quarter sales up year-over-year; first growth quarter since fourth quarter of 2006
                 
Third-quarter GAAP earnings of $0.05 per share, compared to GAAP earnings of $0.01 per share in third quarter of 2009
                 
Non-GAAP earnings per share*, including discontinued operations, of $0.16 compared to $0.06 per share in third quarter of 2009,
exceeding the Company's guidance of $0.10 - $0.12 per share
                 
Total cash** increased to $9.0 billion
                 
Mobile Devices sales of $2.0 billion; shipped 9.1 million handsets, including 3.8 million smartphones; GAAP operating loss of $43 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $3 million
                 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions sales of $1.9 billion; GAAP operating earnings of $253 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $321 million
                 
Home sales of $912 million; GAAP operating earnings of $49 million; non-GAAP operating earnings of $77 million
 
 
Motorola
, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today reported sales of $4.9 billion in the third quarter of 2010, up 13 percent from the third quarter a year ago. Financial results related to the portion of the Company's Networks business expected to be acquired by Nokia Siemens Networks ("NSN") are reported as discontinued
 
operations. Sales, including $871 million associated with discontinued operations, totaled $5.8 billion, up 6 percent from the year-ago period.
 
GAAP net earnings in the third quarter of 2010 were $109 million, or $0.05 per share, compared to $12 million, or $0.01 per share, in the third quarter 2009. On a non-GAAP basis, including discontinued operations, earnings in the third quarter of 2010 were $380 million, or $0.16 per share, exceeding the Company's guidance of $0.10 - $0.12 per share. Non-GAAP earnings, including discontinued operations, in the third quarter of 2009 were $131 million, or $0.06 per share.
 
GAAP earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010, which excludes the portion of the Networks business expected to be acquired by NSN, were $7 million, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $90 million in the third quarter of 2009. Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010 were $278 million, or $0.12 per share, up from $0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2009.
 
Non-GAAP financial information excludes after-tax costs of approximately $0.12 per share related to stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items. Details on these non-GAAP adjustments and the use of non-GAAP measures are included later in this press release.
 
During the quarter, the Company generated positive operating cash flow from continuing operations of $502 million
and ended the quarter with a total cash** position of $9.0 billion. Net cash*** increased to $5.6 billion from $4.9 billion in the second quarter.
 
"In the third quarter, Motorola Mobility showed positive momentum across the business, with Mobile Devices reaching profitability for the first time in over three years and Home continues to maintain its leadership position," said Sanjay Jha, Motorola co-chief executive officer and Motorola Mobility CEO. "Mobile Devices' DROIDX continues to sell extremely well, and we have had several other successful smartphone launches globally, including the DROID 2, the MING series in China, as well as a well-received introduction of our enterprise-ready DROID PRO. As we continue to make progress across the organization, we remain focused on further improving our financial results and pursuing the delivery of best-in-class software and hardware experiences to consumers and business users."
 
Greg Brown, Motorola co-chief executive officer and Motorola Solutions CEO, said, "Our Enterprise Mobility Solutions business continues to deliver very solid financial results. In enterprise markets, we continued to experience double-digit sales growth in all four geographic regions we serve. Additionally, our public safety business remains resilient. Going forward, we are focused on next-
 
generation public safety and enterprise solutions and services. I am excited about the opportunities ahead as we approach our targeted separation."
 
Operating Results
 
Mobile Devices
segment sales were $2.0 billion, up 20 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. The
GAAP operating loss was $43 million compared to an operating loss of $216 million in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $3 million compared to an operating loss of $183 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Mobile Devices highlights:
 
                 
Shipped 3.8 million smartphones with a total of 22 smartphones introduced during 2010.
                 
Launched three new smartphones in the iconic MING series designed for China  the MT810 for China Mobile's TD-SCDMA network, the XT806 for China Telecom's CDMA-2000 network and the A1680 for China Unicom's WCDMA network.
                 
Unveiled the slim and pocketable Motorola DEFY, optimized for an active lifestyle, water resistant, dust proof and equipped with a 3.7-inch high-resolution, scratch-resistant display.
                 
Continued to grow the DROID portfolio with the introduction of three new devices, available at Verizon  DROID 2, DROID PRO and the limited edition DROID R2-D2.
                 
Recently announced three new smartphones available for the holiday season at AT&T: BRAVO, FLIPSIDE and FLIPOUT, designed for the next generation of smartphone users across tiers, providing consumers greater choices and flexibility.
                 
Continued leadership in Bluetooth headset technology with the introduction of four headsets: the Motorola Oasis, S10-HD, Finiti and CommandOne
.
 
Home
segment sales were $912 million, up 5 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $49 million compared to $20 million in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $77 million compared to $43 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Home highlights:
 
                 
Launched the Motorola EDGE Service Assurance Software Suite, enabling cable and telecom operators to more efficiently activate, provision, maintain and support all broadband services in a multi-screen digital home.
                 
Introduced a hosted switched digital video solution that provides independent operators with the bandwidth reclamation and management capabilities needed to launch HDTV, VOD, 3DTV and interactive TV applications.
 
                 
Supported Verizon with the launch of its video service by providing the Motorola Medios software suite to ingest content and prepare it for distribution, enabling subscribers to share video among devices such as set-top boxes, personal computers and smartphones.
 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions
segment sales, which now includes the iDEN infrastructure business, were $1.9 billion, up 9 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $253 million compared to operating earnings of $223 million in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $321 million compared to $303 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions highlights:
 
                 
Secured a $50 million federal government grant to expand broadband access to communities in the San Francisco Bay Area, including a private
broadband LTE network for public safety.
                 
Announced a strategic alliance with Ericsson for an LTE-based solution that will be integrated with Motorola's Next Generation Public Safety Broadband solution.
                 
Introduced the new MC65, a compact, rugged enterprise mobile computer aimed at improving productivity in task-oriented environments such as field service, field sales, transportation and public safety.
                 
Began shipping the new ES400
enterprise digital assistant, which will be available globally during the fourth quarter.
                 
Received multi-million dollar public safety contracts from the U.S. Marshals Service, Washington Metro Area Transportation Authority and Nashville-Davidson County Metropolitan Government in Tennessee.
 
Fourth-Quarter 2010 Outlook
 
The Company's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2010 is for earnings
from continuing operations of $0.14 to $0.16 per share. This outlook excl
udes the portion of the Networks business expected to be acquired by Nokia Siemens Networks, and stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense of approximately $0.04 per share, as well as charges associated with items of the variety typically highlighted by the Company in its quarterly earnings releases.
 
 
Consolidated GAAP Results
 
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
 
 
Highlighted Items, Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Intangible Assets Amortization Expense
 
The table below includes highlighted items, stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense for the third quarter of 2010.
 
 
* EPS amount does not add up due to rounding.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Motorola will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 8 a.m. (U.S. Eastern Time) on Thursday, October 28. The conference call will be webcast live with audio and slides at .
www.motorola.com/investor
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
In addition to the GAAP results included in this presentation, Motorola also has included non-GAAP measurements of results. Motorola has provided these non-GAAP measurements to help investors better understand Motorola's core operating performance, enhance comparisons of Motorola's core operating performance from period to period and allow better comparisons of Motorola's operating performance to that of its competitors. Among other things, the Company's management uses these operating results, excluding the identified items, to evaluate the performance of its businesses and to evaluate results relative to certain incentive compensation targets. Management uses operating results excluding these items because it believes this measurement enables it to make better period-to-period evaluations of the financial performance of its core business operations. The non-GAAP measurements are intended only as a supplement to the comparable GAAP measurements and the Company compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of non-GAAP measurements by using GAAP measures in conjunction with the non-GAAP measurements. As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measurements in addition to, and not in substitution for or as superior to, measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Highlighted items:
The Company has excluded the effects of highlighted items (and any reversals of highlighted items recorded in prior periods) from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements because the Company believes that these historical items do not reflect expected future operating earnings or expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the Company's current operating performance or comparisons to the Company's past operating performance.
 
Stock-based compensation expense:
The Company has excluded stock-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees and the Company believes such compensation contributed to the revenue earned during the periods presented and also believes it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, the Company continues to evaluate its performance excluding stock-based compensation expense primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense. Stock-based compensation expense will recur in future periods.
 
Intangible assets amortization expense:
The Company has excluded intangible assets amortization expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements, primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense and because the Company evaluates its performance excluding intangible assets amortization expense. Amortization of intangible assets is consistent in amount and frequency but is significantly affected by the timing and size of the Company's acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to the Company's revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to the Company's future period revenues as well. Intangible assets amortization expense will recur in future periods.
 
Details of the above items and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measurements to the corresponding GAAP measurements can be found at the end of this press release.
 
Business Risks
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates", "estimates" and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release. available for free on the SEC's website at and on Motorola's website at www.motorola.comMany of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by Motorola and f
Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the timing and financial impact of the launch of new productsthe separation of Motorola into two independent, public companies, and Motorola's financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2010. Motorola cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 17 through 29 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other SEC filings
,
www.sec.gov
, could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements.
actors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) possible negative effects on the Company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of its plan to create two independent, publicly traded companies, which may include: (i) diminished purchasing leverage and increased exposure to market fluctuations as a result of being a smaller, more focused company, (ii) ongoing obligations relating to certain debt and pension liabilities and certain corporate litigation matters retained by Motorola after the separation, (iii) the increased percentage of cash and cash equivalents retained by Motorola after the separation being
 
held outside of the U.S., and (iv) the allocation of certain logos, trademarks, trade names and service marks including "MOTOROLA" to Motorola Mobility; (2) the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (3) the Company's ability to improve financial performance in its Mobile Devices business, including the success of its smartphone strategy; (4) Mobile Device's dependency on third-party operating systems and software, including Google's Android operating system; (5) the level of demand for the Company's products, particularly if consumers, businesses and governments defer purchases in response to tighter credit; (6) the Company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (7) unexpected negative consequences from the Company's restructuring and cost reduction activities, including as a result of significant restructuring at the Mobile Devices business; (8) negative impact on the Company's business from global economic conditions, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the Company's products; (ii) the viability of the Company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) changes in the value of investments held by the Company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of the Company's debt and equity investments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the Company's financial position; (vi) difficulties or increased costs for the Company in obtaining financing; and (vii) the inability of the Company to sell accounts receivable and long-term receivables in volumes and on terms comparable to historical practices; (9) the Company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions; (10) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (11) the impact on the Company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (12) risks related to the Company's high volume of manufacturing in Asia and business operations in foreign countries; (13) the creditworthiness of the Company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (14) variability in income received from licensing the Company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the Company licenses intellectual property from others; (15) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings; (16) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, including the negative impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar on the Company when competing for business in foreign markets; (17) the impact on the Company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; (18) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (19) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (20) negative consequences from the Company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Definitions
 
*
Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes from GAAP earnings per share the effects of stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items
 
** Total cash = Cash and cash equivalents + Sigma Fund (current and non-current) and short-term investments
 
*** Net cash = Total cash - Total debt (Notes payable and current portion of long-term debt + Long-term debt)
 
**** Amounts attributable to Motorola, Inc. common shareholders
 
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and is focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices that provide compelling experiences, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit .
www.motorola.com
 
Media contact:
Jennifer Erickson
Motorola Mobility
+1 847-435-5320
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
 
Nick Sweers
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorola.com
 
Investor contact:
Dean Lindroth
Motorola
+1 847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 
MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are registered in the US Patent & Trademark Office. DROID is a trademark of Lucasfilm Ltd. and its related companies. Used under license. The Bluetooth trademarks are owned by their proprietor and used under license.  All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.  Motorola, Inc. 2010. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales by reportable segment for the three months and nine months ended October 2, 2010 and October 3, 2009.
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Operating earnings (loss) by reportable segment for the three months and nine months ended October 2, 2010 and October 3, 2009.
 
 
 
* Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* EPS impact may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


