FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20101201083535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02              Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)           On November 30, 2010, the Board of Directors of Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola") determined to decrease the size of the Board of Directors from eleven directors to nine directors, conditioned on, and effective as of, the occurrence of the effective time (the "Effective Time") of the planned separation (the "Separation") of Motorola's Mobile Devices and Home businesses from Motorola's other businesses, and the planned distribution (the "Distribution") to Motorola's stockholders of all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Motorola ("Motorola Mobility Holdings"), which at the time of the Distribution, will hold the Mobile Devices and Home businesses of Motorola.  In connection therewith, Sanjay K. Jha, director and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Daniel M. Moloney, Executive Vice President, and certain of Motorola's directorsWilliam R. Hambrecht, Keith A. Meister, Thomas J. Meredith, James R. Stengel and Anthony J. Vinciquerratendered their respective resignations, conditioned on, and effective as of, the occurrence of the Effective Time.
 
(c)           Gregory Q. Brown, age 50, who served as Co-Chief Executive Officer, Motorola and Chief Executive Officer, Motorola Solutions, since August 4, 2008 and as Chief Executive Officer of Motorola from January 1, 2008 to August 3, 2008, will be appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola, conditioned on, and effective as of, the occurrence of the Effective Time.  Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Motorola, Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Motorola and in various senior executive capacities with Motorola beginning in January 2003.  Before joining Motorola, Mr. Brown served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Micromuse Inc. from February 1999 to December 2002.
 
(d)           The Board of Directors elected William J. Bratton, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, Vincent J. Intrieri and Judy C. Lewent to the Board of Directors, conditioned on, and effective as of, the occurrence of the Effective Time, to serve until Motorola's 2011 Annual Meeting and the election and qualification of his or her successor or, if earlier, until his or her death or resignation or removal from the Board of Directors.
 
Conditioned on, and effective as of, the occurrence of the Effective Time, (1) Mr. Intrieri, Ms. Lewent and Douglas A. Warner III will be appointed as members of the Audit and Legal Committee, (2) Gen. Hayden and Ms. Lewent will be appointed as members of the Governance and Nominating Committee, (3) David W. Dorman will be appointed as the Committee Chair of the Governance and Nominating Committee, (4) Mr. Bratton and Mr. Dorman will be appointed as members of the Compensation and Leadership Committee, and (5) John A. White, Mr. Dorman, Samuel C. Scott and Mr. Brown will be appointed as members of the Executive Committee.
 
Each of Mr. Bratton, Gen. Hayden, Mr. Intrieri and Ms. Lewent will receive the standard compensation received by non-employee directors. These compensation arrangements were described in Motorola's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed on March 12, 2010 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  As disclosed in the definitive proxy statement, each non-employee director will be granted deferred stock units, pro-rated based on the number of months served with a value of $10,000 per month, divided by the closing price of Motorola Stock on the day of election, which will occur as of the Effective Time.
 
Mr. Intrieri is appointed to the Board of Directors pursuant to an agreement, dated April 7, 2008, by and among Motorola, Icahn Partners LP, Icahn Partners Master Fund LP, High River Limited Partnership, Carl C. Icahn and the other signatories thereto, as amended by that letter agreement, dated November 30, 2010 (the "2010 Motorola/Icahn Agreement").  The information contained in Item 5.02 of Motorola's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 8, 2008 with the SEC is incorporated herein by reference.  The full text of the 2010 Motorola/Icahn Agreement is included as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press release announcing certain of these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
 
Item 5.07              Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
A special meeting of Motorola stockholders was held on
November 29, 2010.  At the special meeting, the following matters were considered:
 
1.
             
a proposal to authorize the Board of Directors to effect, in its discretion prior to December 31, 2011, a reverse stock split (the "Reverse Stock Split") of the outstanding and treasury shares of Motorola common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Motorola Common Stock") in a ratio of at least 1-for-3 and of up to 1-for-7, to be determined by the Board of Directors, and
 
2.
             
a proposal to adopt a corresponding amendment (the "Amendment") to Motorola's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to effect the reverse stock split and to reduce proportionately the total number of shares of Motorola Common Stock that Motorola is authorized to issue.
 
At the special meeting, approximately 2,027,957,572 shares were represented, in person or by proxy, which represented approximately 86.3% of Motorola's shares entitled to vote at the special meeting. The voting results are set forth below:
 
 
The affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of Motorola's shares was required for the approval of the Reverse Stock Split and the adoption of the Amendment. The Reverse Stock Split was approved with approximately 84.5% of the shares voting in favor of the Reverse Stock Split. The Amendment was adopted with approximately 84.4% of the shares voting in favor of the adoption of the Amendment.  There were no "Withhold" or "Broker Non-Votes" with respect to either matter.
 
Item 8.01.             Other Events
 
On November 30, 2010, Motorola announced the timing and details regarding the Separation and the approval of the Reverse Stock Split at a stock split ratio of 1-for-7.  The Motorola Board of Directors has declared a pro rata dividend of Motorola Mobility Holdings' common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Motorola Mobility Holdings Common Stock"), to be made prior to the markets open on the distribution date of January 4, 2011 to Motorola's stockholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. New York City time on December 21, 2010 (the "Record Date").  Each Motorola stockholder will receive a dividend of one share of Motorola Mobility Holdings Common Stock for every 8 shares of Motorola Common Stock that they hold on the Record Date.  The Reverse Stock Split will be effected immediately following the Distribution.
 
The press release announcing these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Separation of Motorola Mobility Holdings from Motorola
 
The Distribution will be made pursuant to the terms of an Amended and Restated Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, effective as of July 31, 2010 (the "MSDA"), among Motorola, Motorola Mobility Holdings and Motorola Mobility, Inc. ("Mobility").  The MSDA sets forth, among other things, the agreements among Motorola, Motorola Mobility Holdings and Mobility regarding the principal transactions necessary to effect the Separation and the Distribution. It also sets forth other agreements that govern certain aspects of Motorola's ongoing relationship with Motorola Mobility Holdings after the completion of the Distribution. A summary of certain important features of the MSDA can be found in the information statement attached to Motorola Mobility Holdings' Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on November 30, 2010, under the section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions
Agreements with Motorola, Inc. Master Separation and Distribution Agreement", which is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the MSDA set forth hereunder is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the MSDA filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Motorola's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 2, 2010 with the SEC.
 
In addition to the MSDA, Motorola, Motorola Mobility Holdings and Mobility, as applicable, have entered
 
into or will enter into certain ancillary agreements, including an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement, an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property License Agreement, an Amended and Restated Exclusive License Agreement, a Tax Sharing Agreement, a Transition Services AgreementMotorola Mobility Provided Services, a Transition Services AgreementMotorola Solutions Provided Services, an Amended and Restated Employee Matters Agreement, a Contribution, Assignment and Assumption Agreement, a SpinCo Contribution Agreement and certain other commercial agreements, in connection with the Separation and the Distribution.  A summary of certain important features of these documents can be found in the information statement attached to Motorola Mobility Holdings' Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on November 30, 2010, under the section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions
Agreements with Motorola, Inc.", which is incorporated by reference herein. The descriptions of the Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement, the Amended and Restated Intellectual Property License Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement and the Amended and Restated Employee Matters Agreement set forth hereunder are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of such agreements filed as Exhibit 10.2, Exhibit 10.3, Exhibit 10.4 and Exhibit 10.5, respectively, to Motorola's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 2, 2010 with the SEC.
 
All stockholders of Motorola are urged to read the aforementioned agreements carefully and in their entirety.  The descriptions of the aforementioned agreements have been included to provide you with information regarding their terms.  They are not intended to provide any other factual information about Motorola, Motorola Mobility Holdings or Mobility.
 
Motorola Reverse Stock Split
 
The Reverse Stock Split will become effective immediately after the Distribution on January 4, 2010.  On November 29, 2010, Motorola's stockholders voted to authorize the Board of Directors to effect, in its discretion, a Reverse Stock Split of the outstanding and treasury common stock of Motorola at a reverse stock split ratio in the range of 1-for-3 to 1-for-7, as determined by the Board of Directors. Under the terms of the Reverse Stock Split, Motorola stockholders will not be entitled to receive fractional shares.  Instead, the transfer agent will aggregate all fractional shares and sell them as soon as practicable after the effective time of the Reverse Stock Split at the then prevailing prices on the open market, on behalf of those stockholders who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fractional share. After the transfer agent's completion of such sale, Motorola's stockholders will receive a cash payment from the transfer agent in an amount equal to their respective pro rata shares of the total net proceeds of that sale.  On November 30, 2010, the Board of Directors established the reverse stock split ratio of 1-for-7.
 
Motorola Corporate Name Change
 
Motorola will change its name to Motorola Solutions, Inc. ("Motorola Solutions") immediately after the effective time of the Reverse Stock Split pursuant to a merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary in which Motorola will be the surviving corporation.  Motorola Solutions common stock, par value $0.01 per share, will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol "MSI" on January 4, 2011.
 
Confidentiality Agreement
 
In connection with the 2010 Motorola/Icahn Agreement, Motorola, Icahn Partners LP, Icahn Partners Master Fund LP, High River Limited Partnership, Carl C. Icahn and Mr. 
Intrieri entered into a confidentiality agreement, dated November 30, 2010 (the "2010 Confidentiality Agreement").  The full text of the 2010 Confidentiality Agreement is included as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates", "estimates" and similar expressions.  Motorola can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward looking statements represent Motorola's views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing Motorola's views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this Current Report.   Such forward-looking statements
 
include, but are not limited to statements about the separation of Motorola into two independent, publicly-traded companies; the terms, timing and effect of the separation on Motorola, its stockholders, customers and employees; the future operational, strategic and financial flexibility of Motorola and Motorola Mobility Holdings and other possible results of the distribution and reverse stock split.  Many of these risks and uncertainties are based on factors that cannot be controlled by Motorola and include, but are not limited to (1) market conditions in general and those applicable to the Distribution and Reverse Stock Split; (2) factors affecting the expected timeline for completing Motorola's Separation into two public companies; (3) the effect Motorola's separation and the Reverse Stock Split may have on Motorola's stock price; (4) the risk that the anticipated benefits from the Distribution and Reverse Stock Split may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; (5) tax and regulatory matters; (6) changes in economic, competitive, strategic, technological, regulatory or other factors that effect the operation of Motorola's businesses.  A detailed description of other risks and uncertainties affecting Motorola, is contained in Item 1A of Motorola's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in Item 1A of Motorola Mobility Holdings' Form 10, in Item 1A of Motorola's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and in its other filings with the SEC. These filings are available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola's website at www.motorola.com. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)       Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: December 1, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Motorola to Complete Separation on January 4, 2011
 
November 30, 2010
 
                 
Motorola Mobility distribution ratio will be 1 share for every 8 shares of Motorola common stock
                 
Motorola, Inc. reverse stock split ratio will be 1 share for every 7 shares of Motorola common stock
                 
Motorola, Inc. to change name to Motorola Solutions, Inc.
 
Schaumburg, Ill., Nov. 30, 2010  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that its board of directors has approved the separation of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. ("Motorola Mobility") from Motorola, Inc. through a tax-free dividend involving the distribution of all Motorola Mobility common stock held by Motorola to Motorola stockholders and has also approved a reverse stock split of shares of Motorola common stock following the distribution. As a result, the following will occur:
 
                 
The distribution will be made prior to the market open on Jan. 4, 2011 to Motorola, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on Dec. 21, 2010.
                 
Motorola, Inc. stockholders of record will receive 1 share of Motorola Mobility common stock for every 8 shares of Motorola common stock they hold.
                 
Immediately following the distribution of Motorola Mobility common stock to Motorola stockholders, Motorola will effect a 1-for-7 reverse stock split of Motorola common stock, which will become effective prior to the market open on Jan. 4, 2011.
 
In a joint statement, Greg Brown, Motorola co-CEO and CEO of Motorola Solutions, and Sanjay Jha, Motorola co-CEO and CEO of Motorola Mobility, said: "Today's announcement marks another important milestone toward the upcoming separation that is expected to benefit Motorola, its stockholders, as well as each company's respective customers and employees. We look forward to taking advantage of the opportunities before us as we begin the new year as two independent, publicly traded companies."
 
On Jan. 4, 2011, Motorola, Inc. will change its name to Motorola Solutions, Inc. and will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol MSI, and Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc will begin trading on the NYSE under the ticker symbol MMI.
 
Please refer to http://www.motorola.com/investors for additional information, including Frequently Asked Questions, regarding the spin-off of Motorola Mobility and the reverse stock split of Motorola common stock described in this release.
 
Distribution of Motorola Mobility Shares to Motorola Stockholders
 
As stated above, prior to the opening of the markets on the distribution date of Jan. 4, 2011, Motorola stockholders of record as of the close of business on Dec. 21, 2010, the record date for the distribution, will receive 1 share of Motorola Mobility common stock for every 8 shares of Motorola common stock they hold.
 
No action is required by Motorola stockholders to receive the shares of Motorola Mobility common stock. Stockholders who hold Motorola common stock on the record date will receive a book-entry account statement reflecting their ownership of Motorola Mobility common stock or their brokerage account will be credited with the Motorola Mobility shares.
 
Fractional shares of Motorola Mobility common stock will not be distributed to Motorola stockholders. Instead, the fractional shares of Motorola Mobility common stock will be aggregated and sold in the open market, with the net proceeds distributed pro rata in the form of cash payments to Motorola stockholders who would otherwise hold Motorola Mobility fractional shares.
 
Motorola has received an opinion of counsel that the distribution of Motorola Mobility common stock to Motorola stockholders qualifies as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares. Non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to tax on the distribution in jurisdictions other than the U.S.
 
Motorola stockholders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the particular consequences of the distribution in their situation, including the applicability and effect of any U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax laws.
 
Reverse Stock Split of Motorola Shares
 
As stated above, immediately following the distribution Motorola will effect a 1-for-7 reverse stock split of Motorola common stock, prior to the market open on Jan. 4, 2011. As previously announced, immediately following the reverse stock split Motorola, Inc. will change its name to Motorola Solutions, Inc. As a result of these actions, every 7 shares of Motorola common stock will be converted into one share of Motorola Solutions common stock. Motorola's stockholders authorized the board to implement the reverse stock split at a Special Meeting of Stockholders held on Nov. 29, 2010.
 
Stockholders will not receive fractional shares in connection with the reverse stock split. Instead, the transfer agent will aggregate all fractional shares and sell them as soon as practicable after the effective time of the reverse stock split at the then prevailing prices on the open market, on behalf of those stockholders who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fractional share. Stockholders will receive a cash payment from the transfer agent in an amount equal to their respective pro rata shares of the total net proceeds of that sale.
 
A letter of transmittal relating to the reverse stock split will be mailed to holders of physical certificates representing Motorola common stock once the reverse stock split is effective. All Motorola stockholders ultimately will receive their replacement shares of Motorola common stock in book-entry form along with a cash payment for any fractional share.
 
Trading of Motorola Common Stock
 
Shares of Motorola common stock will continue to trade "regular way" on the NYSE through the period leading up to the distribution date of Jan. 4, 2011. Any holders of shares of Motorola common stock who sell Motorola shares "regular way" on or before the close of business on Jan. 3, 2011, also will be selling their right to receive shares of Motorola Mobility common stock in the distribution. Motorola Mobility common stock is expected to begin trading on a "when-issued" basis on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "MMI WI" (when-issued) on Dec. 17, 2010. On Jan. 4, 2011, Motorola Mobility will begin trading "regular way" under the symbol "MMI" and Motorola Solutions will begin trading under the symbol "MSI." Investors are encouraged to consult with their financial advisers regarding the specific implications of buying or selling Motorola common stock on or before the distribution date.
 
The completion of the Motorola Mobility distribution is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including the Registration Statement on Form 10 for the Motorola Mobility common stock being declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Motorola Mobility common stock being authorized for listing on the NYSE and certain other conditions described in the Information Statement included in the Form 10 and in the agreements filed as exhibits to the Form 10. The condition relating to the authorization of the Motorola Mobility common stock for listing on the NYSE has been satisfied, and todayMotorola Mobility is sending a letter to the SEC requesting that the Form 10 be declared effective.Motorola and Motorola Mobility expect all other conditions to the Motorola Mobility distribution to be satisfied on or before the distribution date.
 
Precautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates", "estimates" and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about the separation of the Company into two independent, publicly-traded companies; the terms, timing and effect of the separation on the Company, its stockholders, customers and employees; the capitalization of the Company and Motorola Mobility; the future operational, strategic and financial flexibility of the Company and Motorola Mobility and other possible results of the distribution and reverse stock split. Many of these risks and uncertainties are based on factors that cannot be controlled by Motorola and include, but are not limited to (1) market conditions in general and those applicable to the distribution and reverse stock split; (2) factors affecting the expected timeline for completing our separation into two public companies; (3) the effect our separation and the reverse stock split may have on Motorola's stock price; (4) the risk that the anticipated benefits from the distribution and reverse stock split may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; (5) tax and regulatory matters; (6) changes in economic, competitive, strategic, technological, regulatory or other factors that effect the operation of Motorola's businesses. A detailed description of other risks and uncertainties affecting Motorola, is contained in Item 1A of Motorola's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in Item 1A of Motorola Mobility's Form 10, in Item 1A of Motorola's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and in its other filings with the Securities
 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola's website at www.motorola.com. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and is focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices that provide compelling experiences, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
Media Contacts:
 
Jennifer Erickson +1 847-523-2422 jennifer.erickson@motorola.com Motorola Mobility
 
Nick Sweers Office: +1 847-576-2462 nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com Motorola, Inc.
 
Dean Lindroth +1 847-576-6899 dean.lindroth@motorola.com Motorola, Inc., Investor Relations

Exhibit 99.2
 
Motorola Solutions Announces New Board of Directors Effective Jan. 4
 
Schaumburg, Ill
., Dec. 1, 2010  On Jan. 4, 2011, Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT  News) will change its name to Motorola Solutions, Inc., will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "MSI," and will have the following board members:
 
                 
Gregory Q. Brown, director and president & CEO
                 
David W. Dorman, non-executive chairman
                 
William J. Bratton, named director
                 
General Michael V. Hayden, named director
                 
Vincent J. Intrieri, named director
                 
Judy C. Lewent, named director
                 
Samuel C. Scott III, director
                 
Douglas A. Warner III, director
                 
John A. White, director
 
Today we are also announcing that the Motorola Solution board of directors plans to elect Greg Brown to the additional role of chairman of Motorola Solutions effective in May 2011 and Dave Dorman will transition into the role of lead independent director.
 
"I want to thank all members of the Motorola board for their service over the years," Brown said, "and I am pleased about our new board for Motorola Solutions. Additionally, I would like to welcome new members Bill Bratton, General Michael Hayden, Vince Intrieri and Judy Lewent. I look forward to working with them in building and growing our new company."
 
About Motorola
 
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and is focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices that provide compelling experiences, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
About Motorola Solutions
 
Motorola Solutions is a leading provider of business- and mission-critical communication products and services for enterprise and government customers. Through leading-edge innovation and communications technology, it is a global leader that enables its customers to be their best in the moments that matter. Motorola Solutions will begin trading on the New York
 
Stock Exchange under the ticker "MSI" on Jan. 4, 2011. For ongoing news, please visit our media center or subscribe to our news feed.
 
Precautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates", "estimates" and similar expressions.  We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about the separation of the Company into two independent, publicly-traded companies.  Many of these risks and uncertainties are based on factors that cannot be controlled by Motorola and include, but are not limited to (1) market conditions in general and those applicable to the distribution and reverse stock split; (2) factors affecting the expected timeline for completing our separation into two public companies; (3) the effect our separation and the reverse stock split may have on Motorola's stock price; (4) the risk that the anticipated benefits from the distribution and reverse stock split may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; (5) tax and regulatory matters; (6) changes in economic, competitive, strategic, technological, regulatory or other factors that effect the operation of Motorola's businesses.  A detailed description of other risks and uncertainties affecting Motorola, is contained in Item 1A of Motorola's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in Item 1A of Motorola Mobility's Form 10, in Item 1A of Motorola's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and in its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola's website at www.motorola.com. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Media contact:
Nicholas Sweers
Office: +1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com
Motorola Solutions Global Communications
 
Investor contact:
Dean Lindroth
Office: + 1 847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
Motorola, Inc. Investor Relations
 
Greg Brown
is co-chief executive officer of Motorola and president and chief executive officer of Motorola Solutions. Brown joined Motorola in 2003 and was elected to the company's board of directors in 2007. He became president and CEO of Motorola in January 2008. Since that time, he has served as CEO or co-CEO of Motorola.
 
Brown served as president and chief operating officer beginning in March 2007. Previously, he headed four different businesses at Motorola, including the government and public safety, networks, enterprise and automotive businesses. Brown also led the $3.9 billion acquisition of Symbol Technologies, the second largest transaction in Motorola's history and an important strategic move to strengthen Motorola's Enterprise Mobility business. Prior to joining Motorola, he was chairman and CEO of Micromuse Inc., a publicly traded network management software company. Before that, he was president of Ameritech Custom Business Services and Ameritech New Media Inc. Prior to joining Ameritech in 1987, Brown held a variety of sales and marketing positions with AT&T. In addition to his responsibilities at Motorola, Brown is an active member of the civic and business communities. In 2004, he was appointed by the White House to serve on the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC), and continues to be a member today. He is a member of the Business Council, Business Roundtable, Technology CEO Council, Commercial Club of Chicago and the Northwestern Memorial Hospital board. He is also on the executive committee of the US-China Business Council (USCBC) and is a member of the U.S.-Brazil CEO Forum. Brown earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Rutgers University and is a member of the Rutgers University board of trustees and board of overseers.
 
Bill Bratton
was appointed chairman of Kroll, a business of Altegrity, Inc. in September 2010 following Altegrity's acquisition of Kroll. Kroll is the world's leading risk consulting company. Bratton joined Altegrity in November 2009 as chairman of Altegrity Risk International where he consulted on security for criminal justice agencies worldwide. Prior to joining Altegrity, Bratton served as chief of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) from October 2002 to October 2009. From 1994 to 1996, he served as commissioner of the New York City Police Department. Prior to the NYPD appointment, Bratton served as head of a number of other police agencies including commissioner of the Boston Police Department, chief of police of the New York City Transit Police Department, superintendent of the Massachusetts Metropolitan District Commission of Police and chief of police for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. From 1996 until his appointment as LAPD chief, Bratton worked in the private sector and, in 1999, formed the Bratton Group, LLC, which consulted extensively in the United States and Latin America on policing, public safety and rule-of-law initiatives. During this period Bratton also served as senior consultant to Kroll's Public Services Safety Group and Crisis and Consulting Management Group. A frequent lecturer, writer and commentator in the fields of security, counterterrorism, law enforcement and rule-of-law systems, Bratton is vice chairman of the Homeland Security Advisory Council. He holds a bachelor's degree in law enforcement from Boston State College/University of Massachusetts, and is a graduate of the Senior Executive Fellows Program at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Goverment.
 
Dave Dorman
is the non-executive chairman of the board for Motorola. Previously he was a managing director and senior adviser with Warburg Pincus, a global leader in private equity. He was chairman and CEO of AT&T, a provider of Internet- and transaction-based voice and data services, from November 2002 until the completion of the AT&T Corp. and SBC Communications merger in November 2005. Dorman joined AT&T as president in December 2000. He began his career in the telecommunications industry at Sprint Corp. in 1981. Dorman serves on the boards of CVS Caremark Corporation, YUM! Brands, Inc. and the Georgia Tech Foundation. In addition, Dorman previously served on the board of Scientific Atlanta. He received a bachelor's degree in industrial management with high honors from the Georgia Institute of Technology.
 
General Michael Hayden
is a retired United States Air Force four-star general who entered active duty in the U.S. Air Force in 1969 and retired in July 2008. He served as director of the Central Intelligence Agency from May 2006 until his retirement from federal service in February 2009. From May 2005 to May 2006, Gen. Hayden served as principal deputy director of National Intelligence. He also was director of the National Security Agency from 1999 to 2005. Gen. Hayden currently is principal at Chertoff Group, a security consultancy. He also serves on the board of Alion Science and Technology and serves as a distinguished visiting professor at George Mason University School of Public Policy. Gen. Hayden received both a bachelor's degree in history and a master's degree in modern American history from Duquesne University. He is a graduate of the Air Force ROTC program.
 
Vincent J. Intrieri
is a director of Icahn Enterprises G.P. Inc., the general partner of Icahn Enterprises L.P., a diversified holding company. Since November 2004, Mr. Intrieri also has served as senior managing director of Icahn Capital LP, the entity through which Carl C. Icahn manages third-party private investment funds. Since January 2005, Mr. Intrieri has been senior managing director of Icahn Associates Corp. and High River Limited Partnership, entities primarily engaged in the business of holding and investing in securities. From April 2005
 
through September 2008, he served as president and chief executive officer of Philip Services Corporation, a metal recycling and industrial series company. Mr. Intrieri is a director of American Railcar Industries, Inc. (ARI) and served as ARI's senior vice president, treasurer and secretary from March 2005 to December 2005. He is chairman and a director of PSC Metals, Inc., chairman of Viskase Companies, Inc. and a director of WestPoint International, Inc., Federal-Mogul Corporation and XO Holdings, Inc. Mr. Intrieri is a certified public accountant and received a bachelor's degree in accounting from The Pennsylvania State University.
 
Judy Lewent
was chief financial officer of Merck & Co., Inc., a pharmaceutical company, from 1990 until her retirement in September 2007. She was also executive vice president of Merck from February 2001 through her retirement and had additional responsibilities as president, Human Health Asia from January 2003 until July 2005, when she assumed strategic planning responsibilities for Merck. Lewent is a director of Dell Inc. and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. She served on Motorola's board of directors from 1995 to May 2010. She is a trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust, is a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation, and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Lewent received a bachelor's degree from Goucher College and a master's degree from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
 
Sam Scott
was chairman, president and CEO of Corn Products International, a corn refining business, from 1997 until his retirement in May 2009. Scott serves on the board of directors of Bank of New York Mellon, Abbott Laboratories and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. He also serves on the board of Northwestern Memorial HealthCare and as chairman of Chicago Sister Cities. Scott received a bachelor's degree in engineering and a master's degree in business administration from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
 
Sandy Warner
was chairman of the board and co-chairman of the executive committee of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., an international commercial and investment banking firm, from December 2000 until he retired in November 2001. From 1995 to 2000, he was chairman of the board, president and CEO of J.P. Morgan & Co. He is a director of General Electric Company, chairman of the board of managers and the board of overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, chairman of the Yale Investment Committee and a trustee of Yale University. In addition, Warner previously served on the board of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. Warner received a bachelor's degree from Yale University.
 
Dr. John White
is a distinguished professor of industrial engineering at the University of Arkansas. Previously, he was chancellor of the University of Arkansas from 1997 until he retired in June 2008. Dr. White served as dean of engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology from 1991 to early 1997, having been a member of the faculty since 1975. He is also a director of J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. In the last five years, Dr. White previously served on the boards of Logility, Inc. and Russell Corp. A member of the National Academy of Engineering, Dr. White received a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from the University of Arkansas, a master's degree in industrial engineering from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and a doctorate of philosophy degree from The Ohio State University.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Persons and entities listed on (the "")
Schedule A
Icahn Group
 
Re: 
Motorola Agreement
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is hereby made to that certain Agreement, dated April 7, 2008, among the Icahn Group and Motorola, Inc. (the "").  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Motorola Agreement.  The term "Icahn Group" shall hereinafter exclude Keith A. Meister and William R. Hambrecht.
Motorola Agreement
 
The parties hereto agree that (a) Vincent J. Intrieri (or any successor designated by the Icahn Group, a "Successor") shall replace Keith A. Meister as the Designee under the Motorola Agreement and all references to Mr. Meister in the Motorola Agreement shall refer to Mr. Intrieri (or such Successor) from and after the date of Mr. Intrieri's (or such Successor's) appointment or election to the Board and his execution of the Confidentiality Agreement and (b) the term "Icahn Designee(s)" shall no longer include William R. Hambrecht or Keith Meister from and after the date of Mr. Intrieri's appointment or election to the Board and such term thereafter shall only include Mr. Intrieri (or such Successor) .  Simultaneously with the resignation of Mr. Meister from the Motorola Board of Directors, Motorola will cause Mr. Intrieri to fill the vacancy created by the resignation.
 
In addition, the parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the term "Common Stock" in the Motorola Agreement shall refer to the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
 
Except as expressly amended hereby, the Motorola Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement are in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect.  This letter shall form a part of the Motorola Agreement for all purposes, and each party thereto and hereto shall be bound hereby.  Sections 7, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14 of the Motorola Agreement shall apply to this letter agreement,.
mutatis mutandis
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
November 30, 2010
 
To: Each of the Persons Listed on Schedule A Hereto (the "")
Icahn Group
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
This letter agreement shall become effective upon the appointment or election of Vincent J. Intrieri to the Board of Directors (the "") of Motorola, Inc. (the "").  The Company understands and agrees that, subject to the terms of, and in accordance with, this letter agreement, Mr. Intrieri (or any successor designated by the Icahn Group, the "") may, if and to the extent he desires to do so, disclose information he obtains while a member of the Board to the Representatives (as hereinafter defined) and may discuss such information with any and all such persons.  As a result, you may receive certain non-public information regarding the Company.  You acknowledge that this information is proprietary to the Company and may include trade secrets or other business information the disclosure of which could harm the Company.  In consideration for, and as a condition of, non-public information being furnished to you (and, subject to the restrictions in paragraph 2, your agents, representatives, attorneys, advisors, directors, officers and employees, collectively, ""), you agree to treat any and all information concerning the Company that is furnished to you or your Representatives (regardless of the manner in which it is furnished, including without limitation in written or electronic format or orally, gathered by visual inspection or otherwise) by the Icahn Designee, or by or on behalf of the Company, together with any notes, analyses, compilations, studies, interpretations, documents or records containing, referring, relating to, based upon or derived from such information, in whole or in part (collectively, ""), in accordance with the provisions of this letter agreement, and to take or abstain from taking the other actions hereinafter set forth.
Board
Company
Icahn Designee
Representatives
Evaluation Material
 
1.  The term "Evaluation Material" does not include information that (i) is or has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a direct or indirect disclosure by you or your Representatives in violation of this letter agreement, (ii) was within your or any of your Representatives' possession prior to its being furnished to you by the Icahn Designee, or by or on behalf of the Company or (iii) is received from a source other than the Icahn Designee, the Company or any of its representatives; , that in the case of each of (ii) and (iii) above, the source of such information was not believed by you, after inquiring of the disclosing person, to be bound by a confidentiality agreement with or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of confidentiality to the Company with respect to such information at the time the same was disclosed.
provided
 
2.  You hereby agree that you and your Representatives will (a) keep the Evaluation Material strictly confidential and (b) not disclose any of the Evaluation Material in any manner whatsoever without the prior written consent of the Company; , ,
provided
however
that you may disclose any of such information to your Representatives (i) who need to know such information for the sole purpose of advising you and (ii) who are informed by you of the confidential nature of such information; , , that you will be responsible for any violation of this letter agreement by your Representatives as if they were parties hereto except that you will not be so responsible with respect to any such Representative who has executed a copy of this letter agreement as an Additional Signatory and delivered such signed copy to the Company.  It is understood and agreed that the Icahn Designee shall not disclose to you or your Representatives any Legal Advice (as defined below) that may be included in the Evaluation Material with respect to which such disclosure would constitute waiver of the Company's attorney client privilege; , , that the Icahn Designee may provide such disclosure if reputable outside legal counsel provides the Company with a written opinion that such disclosure will not waive the Company's attorney client privilege with respect to such Legal Advice.  "Legal Advice" as used herein shall be solely and exclusively limited to the advice provided by legal counsel stating legal rights, duties, liabilities and defenses and shall not include factual information or the formulation or analysis of business strategy.
provided
further
provided
however
 
3.  In the event that you or any of your Representatives are required by applicable subpoena, legal process or other legal requirement to disclose any of the Evaluation Material, you will promptly notify (except where such notice would be legally prohibited) the Company in writing by facsimile and certified mail so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent you or your Representatives, as the case may be, from honoring a subpoena, legal process or other legal requirement that seek or require discovery, disclosure or production of the Evaluation Material if (a) you produce or disclose only that portion of the Evaluation Material which your outside legal counsel advises you is legally required to be so produced or disclosed; or (b) the Company consents in writing to having the Evaluation Material produced or disclosed pursuant to the subpoena, legal process or other legal requirement.  In no event will you or any of your Representatives oppose action by the Company to obtain a protective order or other relief to prevent the disclosure of the Evaluation Material or to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be afforded the Evaluation Material.  It is understood that there shall be no "legal requirement" requiring you to disclose any Evaluation Material solely by virtue of the fact that, absent such disclosure, you would be prohibited from purchasing, selling, or engaging in derivative transactions with respect to, the Common Stock of the Company or otherwise proposing or making an offer to do any of the foregoing.  Before filing any document with the SEC or other governmental or regulatory body in which you intend to include Evaluation Material that you believe is legally required to be included in such a filing, you will submit such filing to the Company for review and will not include such Evaluation Material in such filing if the Company provides you (not more than one business day following your delivery of such filing to the Company), with a written opinion addressed to you of reputable outside legal counsel experienced in the area, stating that the Evaluation Material is not legally required to be included in such filing and stating that you may rely upon such opinion.
 
4.  You acknowledge that (a) none of the Company or any of its representatives makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the Evaluation Material, and (b) none of the Company or any of its representatives shall have any liability to you or to any of your Representatives relating to or resulting from the use of the Evaluation Material or any errors therein or omissions therefrom.  You and your Representatives shall not directly or indirectly initiate contact or communication with any executive or employee
of the Company other than Gregory Brown or Donald McLellan concerning Evaluation Material, or to seek any information in connection therewith from any such person other than Gregory Brown or Donald McLellan, without the prior consent of the Company.
 
5.  All Evaluation Material shall remain the property of the Company.  Neither you nor any of your Representatives shall by virtue of our disclosure of and/or your use of any Evaluation Material acquire any rights with respect thereto, all of which rights (including all intellectual property rights) shall remain exclusively with the Company.
 
6.  You acknowledge that the Evaluation Material may constitute material non-public information under applicable federal and state securities laws, and that you shall not trade or engage in any derivative transaction, on the basis of such information in violation of such laws.
 
7.  You hereby represent and warrant to the Company that this letter agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by you, and is a valid and binding obligation, enforceable against you in accordance with its terms.
 
8.  It is understood and agreed that no failure or delay by the Company in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or future exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder.
 
9.  You acknowledge that the value of the Evaluation Material to the Company is unique and substantial, but may be impractical or difficult to assess in monetary terms.  In the event of an actual or threatened violation of this letter agreement, in addition to any and all other remedies which may be available to the Company, you expressly consent to the Company's seeking the enforcement of this letter agreement by injunctive relief or specific performance, without proof of actual damages.
 
10.  Each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery or other federal or state courts of the State of Delaware in the event any dispute arises out of this letter agreement or the transactions contemplated by this letter agreement, (b) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (c) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this letter agreement or the transactions contemplated by this letter agreement in any court other than the Court of Chancery or other federal or state courts of the State of Delaware, and each of the parties irrevocably waives the right to trial by jury, and (d) each of the parties irrevocably consents to service of process by a reputable overnight delivery service, signature requested, to the address of such parties' principal place of business or as otherwise provided by applicable law.  THIS LETTER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING VALIDITY, INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT, BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS EXECUTED AND TO BE PERFORMED WHOLLY WITHIN SUCH STATE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CHOICE OF LAW PRINCIPLES OF SUCH STATE.
11.  This letter agreement contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and may be amended only by an agreement in writing executed by the parties hereto.
 
12.  All notices, consents, requests, instructions, approvals and other communications provided for herein and all legal process in regard hereto shall be in writing and shall be deemed validly given, made or served, if (a) given by telecopy and email, when such telecopy is transmitted to the telecopy number set forth below and sent to the email address set forth below and the appropriate confirmation is received or (b) if given by any other means, when actually received during normal business hours at the address specified in this subsection:
 
 
13.  If at any time subsequent to the date hereof, any provision of this letter agreement shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, such provision shall be of no force and effect, but the illegality or unenforceability of such provision shall have no effect upon the legality or enforceability of any other provision of this letter agreement.
 
14.  This letter agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts which together shall constitute a single agreement.
 
15.  This letter agreement and the rights and obligations herein may not be assigned or otherwise transferred, in whole or in part, by you without the express written consent of the Company.
 
16.  This letter agreement shall expire two years from the date on which the Icahn Designee ceases to be a director of the Company.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and returning one copy of this letter to the undersigned, whereupon this letter agreement shall become a binding agreement between you and the Company.
 
 
Accepted and agreed as of the date first written above:
 
 
 


