FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20100805160052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b) A. Peter Lawson, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Motorola, Inc. (the "Company" or "Motorola") will leave Motorola following separation of the Mobile Devices and Home businesses from the Company, currently anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2011.
 
(e) On August 2, 2010, Motorola announced that the Company had named Daniel M. Moloney President of its Motorola Mobility business. Mr. Moloney, formerly Executive Vice President, President of Motorola's Home business, will begin his new role on September 1, 2010, and report to Dr. Sanjay Jha, Co-CEO of Motorola, Inc. and CEO of Motorola Mobility.
 
In connection with Mr. Moloney's appointment as Executive Vice President, Motorola, Inc., and President, Motorola Mobility business, the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the following compensatory arrangements covering Mr. Moloney:
 
1. The establishment of Mr. Moloney's annualized base salary at $650,000;
 
2. The establishment of Mr. Moloney's target award under the Company's cash-based pay-for-performance annual incentive plan (the "annual incentive plan") with a target payout at 100% of his Eligible Earnings (as defined under the annual incentive plan);
 
3. A grant of 600,000 restricted stock units (the "RSUs") under the Company's Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (the "Omnibus Plan"), on September 1, 2010, which RSUs will vest in three equal annual installments on September 1, 2011, September 1, 2012 and September 1, 2013, subject to his continued employment;
 
4. A grant of non-qualified stock options (the "Options" under the Omnibus Plan to acquire 1,200,000 shares of the Company's common stock on September 1, 2010. The exercise price for the Options will be the closing price for a share of the Company's common stock on September 1, 2010. The expiration date of the Options, subject to certain conditions, is September 1, 2020. The Options will vest in three equal annual installments on September 1, 2011, September 1, 2012 and September 1, 2013, subject to his continued employment;
)
 
5. Subject to and upon the consummation by June 30, 2011 of the Company's previously announced plan to create two independent publicly traded companies (the "Separation Event"), one of which would consist of the Company's Mobile Devices and Home businesses ("SpinCo"), a grant of equity compensation awards in SpinCo in the amount of $6.5 million, in such form and on such terms and conditions as equity grants are made to similarly situated employees of SpinCo generally at such time;
 
6. The grant of a one-time cash sign-on bonus of $325,000 of which $162,500 will be paid within 30 days from Mr. Moloney's start date and, subject to his continued employment with the Company (or, if applicable, SpinCo), $162,500 will be paid immediately following the six-month anniversary of his start date. Mr. Moloney shall forfeit and repay to the Company (or, if the Separation Event has occurred, SpinCo) any such amounts paid to him if, within 12 months following any such payment, he is terminated for "cause" (as defined under the Company's Executive Severance Plan) or his employment is terminated on his own initiative for any reason; and
 
7. Prior to the Separation Event, Mr. Moloney will be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Severance Plan; and (i) if his employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" before the first anniversary of his employment date, he will be eligible for a total cash severance allowance of 18 months' base salary plus other benefits that are prescribed under the Company's Executive Severance Plan (or after the Separation Event, a SpinCo executive severance plan); (ii)  if his employment is
 
terminated by the Company without "cause" on or after the first anniversary of his employment date, he will be eligible for a total cash severance allowance of 12 months' base salary plus other benefits that are prescribed under the Company's Executive Severance Plan (or after the Separation Event, a SpinCo executive severance plan); and (iii) in no event will he be eligible for benefits under the Company's Executive Severance Plan as a result of his ceasing to be an employee of the Company as of and following the Separation Event.
 
Item 8.01
                                          
Other Events.
 
On August 2, 2010, the Company announced that Daniel M. Moloney had been named President of its Motorola Mobility business. Mr. Moloney, formerly Executive Vice President, President of Motorola's Home business, will begin his new role on September 1, 2010, and report to Dr. Sanjay Jha, Co-CEO of Motorola, Inc. and CEO of Motorola Mobility. The full text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 9.01
                                          
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Dated: August 4, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Motorola Names Daniel M. Moloney President of Motorola Mobility
 
Industry Leader Joins Motorola Mobility
 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., August 2, 2010  , Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that the company named Daniel M. Moloney president of its Motorola Mobility business. He joins Motorola Mobility after serving as chief executive officer of a leading electronic component company. Moloney will oversee Motorola Mobility's Home business as well as the following functional organizations: Supply Chain, IT and Government Affairs. In addition, Moloney will help prepare Motorola Mobility for its launch as an independent, publicly traded company. Moloney will begin in his new role on September 1, 2010 and report to Dr. Sanjay Jha, Co-CEO of Motorola, Inc. and CEO of Motorola Mobility.
Motorola
 
"I am delighted that Dan is re-joining Motorola Mobility. He is a seasoned leader with more than 25 years of industry experience," said Jha. "Dan's operational expertise, strategic orientation and strong customer relationships will help continue to position Motorola Mobility for the convergence of mobility, media, consumer computing and the mobile Internet."
 
"I look forward to this exciting opportunity and to working with Sanjay and Motorola Mobility's leadership team again," said Moloney. "
I am confident that together we can capitalize on the opportunities ahead as an independent public company."
 
"I am also proud to have been part of Technitrol, a company with strong technology and human talent that is well-positioned to take full advantage of high-growth markets. I look forward to my continued role as a member of the Board of Directors," added Moloney.
 
Most recently Moloney served as president and chief executive officer of Technitrol,
a worldwide leader in electronic component manufacturing. Previously, he was executive vice president at Motorola, Inc. and president of Motorola's Home and Networks Mobility business, a provider of integrated and customized end-to-end media solutions for cable, wireline and wireless service providers. Moloney played a leading role in expanding the breadth and global market presence of this business, which became a global leader in both video and WiMAX wireless solutions under his leadership. Moloney served nearly 10 years in senior-level capacities at Motorola and previously, 16 years in managerial positions of increasing responsibility at General Instrument Corporation before its acquisition by Motorola early in 2000. He holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan and a master of business administration from the University of Chicago.
 
 
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and is focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices that provide compelling experiences, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
Media contact:
Jennifer Erickson
Motorola
+1 847-435-5320
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
 
Investor contact:
Dean Lindroth
Motorola
+1 847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 
MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are registered in the US Patent & Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners.  Motorola, Inc. 2010. All rights reserved.


