FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20100222170149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 22, 2010, Motorola announced that Daniel M. Moloney, Executive Vice President, President of Motorola's Home business has decided to leave the Company effective March 5, 2010. The full text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)       Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Motorola Announces Dan Moloney to Leave the Company
 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., Feb 22, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX News Network/  Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT) today announced that Dan Moloney, president of Motorola's Home business, has decided to leave the Company to serve as the chief executive officer for a worldwide producer of electronic components, electrical contacts and assemblies, based in Philadelphia, PA.
 
"I would like to thank Dan for his instrumental role in driving forward the decision to combine Motorola's Mobile Devices and Home businesses," said Sanjay Jha, co-chief executive officer and CEO of Mobile Devices and Home businesses.
 
"We appreciate Dan's many contributions to Motorola, including driving our global video leadership, success in 4G and, most recently, shipping our 100 millionth digital entertainment device," said Greg Brown, co-chief executive officer and CEO of Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks businesses.
 
"I have greatly appreciated my time at Motorola and the opportunity to work with such a talented team," said Dan Moloney. "Mobile Devices and Home are two highly complementary businesses, and I am confident that the combined entity will be uniquely positioned to leverage the growth opportunities arising from the convergence of mobility, media and the Internet."
 
Sanjay Jha will continue to lead the previously announced combined Mobile Devices and Home businesses, as well as take the leadership role for the Home business, effective immediately.
 
About Motorola
 
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and focused on advancing the way the world connects. From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to high-definition video and mobile devices, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
Contacts:
Jennifer Erickson
Office: +1 847-435-5320
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
Motorola Global Communications
 
Dean Lindroth
Office : +1 847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
Motorola Investor Relations
 


