FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20100216130252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As described below in Item 8.01, Motorola, Inc. (the "Company" or "Motorola") announced that it is targeting the first quarter of 2011 for the completion of its planned separation (the "Separation").  On February 11, 2010, the Company and Dr. Sanjay Jha, Co-Chief Executive Officer, Motorola and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola's Mobile Devices business, entered into a second amendment (the "Second Amendment") to Dr. Jha's employment agreement, dated August 4, 2008 (the "Original Employment Agreement").
 
Pursuant to the Second Amendment, effective February 11, 2010, Dr. Jha assumed responsibility for Motorola's Home business as Co-Chief Executive Officer, Motorola and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola's Mobile Devices and Home business.  In addition, the Second Amendment extends from October 31, 2010 to June 30, 2011:
 
     
The date following which Motorola must make a lump sum payment (the "Contingent Payment") to Dr. Jha in the event the Separation has not yet occurred; and
     
The date on which Dr. Jha may terminate his employment for Good Reason if the Separation has not yet occurred.
 
The Second Amendment increases the Contingent Payment from $30 million (under the Original Employment Agreement) to $38 million.
 
Under the Original Employment Agreement, in the event that the Separation occurs, and subject to certain other conditions, Dr. Jha has a right to receive an equity award (the "Separation Equity Award") with respect to the entity that owns the Mobile Devices business (the "MDb entity").  The Second Amendment modifies the commitment regarding Dr. Jha's Separation Equity Award from a fixed percentage equal to 3% of the MDb entity's outstanding shares to a floating percentage ranging from 1.8% to 3% of the MDb entity's outstanding shares, depending upon the market capitalization of the MDb entity following the Separation.  As contemplated by the Original Employment Agreement, the Separation Equity Award will continue to be offset by the inducement equity awards that Dr. Jha received on August 4, 2008 in his Original Employment Agreement and will continue to be allocated 90%/10% between stock options/restricted stock.  The Contingent Payment and the Separation Equity Award are alternatives:  if Dr. Jha receives the Contingent Payment, he will not receive the Separation Equity Award; if Dr. Jha receives the Separation Equity Award, he will not receive the Contingent Payment.
 
Finally, the Second Amendment provides that, for 2010, Dr. Jha is eligible to receive a long-term incentive plan award commensurate with his position.  The full text of the Second Amendment is included as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01.
             
Other Events
 
On February 11, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Company is targeting the first quarter of 2011 for the completion of its planned separation. Motorola intends to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies. The Company currently expects that, upon separation, one public company will be comprised of the Company's Mobile Devices and Home businesses and the other public company will be comprised of the Company's Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks businesses.  The full text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
     
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Amendment (the "") to the Employment Agreement, by and between Motorola, Inc. ("" or the "") and Sanjay K. Jha(the") dated August 4, 2008, as amended on December 15, 2008 (the ""), is effective as of February 11, 2010. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Employment Agreement.
Amendment
Motorola
Company
"
Executive
Employment Agreement
 
1.
            
The second "" recital of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
WHEREAS
 
WHEREAS
, Motorola has announced a plan to create two independent publicly traded companies, one of which would own (directly or indirectly) MDB (the "");
Separation Event
 
2.
            
Section 3(a)(i) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
(i)  During the Employment Period and prior to the occurrence of the Separation Event or any Other Transaction Event (the ""):  (A) the Executive shall serve as (1) the Chief Executive Officer of MDB, (2) the Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Home businesses ("") and (3) the Co-Chief Executive Officer of Motorola in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer (the ""), with such duties, responsibilities and authority as are commensurate with such positions, reporting directly to the Motorola Board, (B) (1) Motorola's General Counsel, (2) Motorola's Chief Financial Officer, (3) the head of Motorola's Supply Chain, (4) the head of Motorola's Public Affairs/Communications Department and (5) the head of Motorola's Human Resources Department (clauses (1) through (5), the "") shall report directly to the OC; , , that (x) employees of MDB and Home shall have direct line reporting relationships to the Executive or his designees (including any applicable member of the Dual Reporting Group) and (y) employees of Motorola's business segments other than MDB and Home shall have direct line reporting relationships to Motorola's other Co-Chief Executive Officer or his designees (including any applicable member of the Dual Reporting Group) (items (x) and (y), together, the ""), (C) Motorola shall cause the Executive to be elected to the Motorola Board as of the Commencement Date, and thereafter, subject to Section 4(g), the Executive shall be nominated by Motorola to remain on the Motorola Board, (D) Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time, energies and talents to serving as Motorola's Co-Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer of MDB and Home, perform his duties subject to the lawful directions of the Motorola Board, and in accordance with Motorola's corporate governance and ethics guidelines, conflict of interests policies, code of conduct and other written policies (collectively, the
Motorola Service Period
Home
OC
Dual Reporting Group
provided
however
Reporting Rules
 
""), (E) the Motorola Board (or such committee of the Motorola Board as the Motorola Board shall duly designate) shall resolve any disagreement between Executive and Motorola's other Co-Chief Executive Officer, (F) in the event that Executive becomes the sole Chief Executive Officer of Motorola, (1) he shall continue to report directly to the Motorola Board, with such duties, responsibilities and authority as are commensurate with such position, (2) the Reporting Rules shall cease to apply, and (3) he shall devote substantially all of his business time, energies and talents to serving as Motorola's Chief Executive Officer and shall perform his duties in accordance with the Motorola Policies and (G) in the event that the Separation Event or an Other Transaction Event does not occur on or prior to August 31, 2011, unless the Parties agree otherwise in writing, (1) Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate, (2) such termination shall be treated as a termination without Cause and (3) the other Co-Chief Executive Officer shall become the sole Chief Executive Officer.
Motorola Policies
 
3.
            
Section 3(b)(iii)(H) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the two references to "October 31, 2010" with the words "June 30, 2011."
 
4.
            
The second to last sentence of Section 3(b)(vii) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
Relocation expenses shall include without limitation temporary housing through the earlier of (A) the date on which the Separation Event occurs and (B) June 30, 2011, and coverage for any loss on the sale of his current home in San Diego, California.
 
5.
            
Section 3(b)(viii) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
(viii)  . Subject to Executive's continued employment with the Company through June 30, 2011, if (A) the Separation Event has not occurred on or prior to June 30, 2011 or (B) the Company consummates an Other Transaction Event on or prior to June 30, 2011, the Company shall pay to Executive $38 million (the "") on July 15, 2011, to the extent not theretofore paid.
Additional Payment
Additional Payment
 
6.
            
Section 4(c)(vii) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
(vii)  the Separation Event or an Other Transaction Event has not occurred on or prior to June 30, 2011;
 
7.
            
Section 5(a)(i)(D) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
(D)  if (1) the Separation Event has not yet occurred, (2) Executive's Date of Termination is on or prior to June 30, 2011 and (3) (x) the Company has terminated Executive without Cause or (y) Executive has terminated employment for
Safe Harbor Good Reason, the Additional Payment, to the extent not theretofore paid; and
 
8.
            
Section 5(b)(i)(D) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as set forth below:
 
(D)  if (1) the Separation Event has not yet occurred, (2) Executive's Date of Termination is on or prior to June 30, 2011 and (3) (x) the Company has terminated Executive without Cause or (y) Executive has terminated employment for Safe Harbor Good Reason, the Additional Payment, to the extent not theretofore paid; and
 
9.
            
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Agreement, in no event shall Executive ceasing to have any title, position, authority, duties or responsibilities with respect to Home as a result of the occurrence of (a) the sale of Home, (b) an Other Transaction Event or (c) a Separation Event in which Home is not part of MDB Public constitute Good Reason or Safe Harbor Good Reason.  For the avoidance of doubt, a diminution in Executive's title with respect to Home or a material diminution in Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities with respect to Home, other than as a result of the occurrence of (1) a sale of Home, (2) an Other Transaction Event or (3) a Separation Event in which Home is not part of MDB Public, shall constitute Good Reason and Safe Harbor Good Reason.
 
10.
          
Subject to Executive's employment with the Company on the date that the Company makes its annual incentive awards (currently anticipated to be during May, 2010), and, subject to approval by the Company Committee, Executive will receive a long range incentive plan award, commensurate with Executive's position with the Company.
 
11.
          
Exhibit D
to the Employment Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety as set forth on to this Amendment.
Exhibit D
 
12.
          
Exhibit E
to the Employment Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety as set forth on to this Amendment.
Exhibit E
 
13.
          
Except as expressly amended by this Amendment, all terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement remain in full force and effect and are unmodified hereby.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have executed or caused this Amendment to be executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
The number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock subject to the MDB Public Stock Option ("") shall equal the product of (1) 0.9 and (2) the difference between (a) the Total Grant Number (b) the Inducement Grant Number.
Option Number
minus
 
"" means the product of (1) the Applicable Percentage and (2) the Shares Outstanding.
Total Grant Number
 
"" means:
Applicable Percentage
 
(1) if the Market Capitalization is equal to or less than $6.0 billion, 3.0000%; and
 
(2) if the Market Capitalization is greater than $6.0 billion, the product of (a) 3.0000% and (b) the Applicable Ratio, with the Applicable Percentage expressed as a percentage carried out to four decimal places; ,, that in no event will the Applicable Percentage be below 1.8000%.
provided
however
 
"" means the quotient obtained by dividing (1) $6.0 billion by (2) the Market Capitalization, with such ratio carried out to four decimal places.
Applicable Ratio
 
"" means the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock actually outstanding immediately following the Separation Event.
Shares Outstanding
 
"" means the product of (1) the Shares Outstanding and (2) the MDB Average Closing Price.
Market Capitalization
 
"" means the average closing price of MDB Public Common Stock for the first fifteen trading days following the Separation Event (including the closing price of MDB Public Common Stock on the date of the Separation Event if the stock trades on that date).
MDB Average Closing Price
 
"" means the sum of (1) the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock that would be issuable under the Inducement Stock Option (based on the original number of shares of Motorola Common Stock subject to the Inducement Stock Option on the date of grant of the Inducement Stock Option) immediately following the Separation Event and after giving effect to the adjustment contemplated by Section 3(b)(iii)(G) of the Agreement and (2) the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock underlying the Inducement Restricted Stock Units (based on the original number of shares of Motorola Common Stock underlying the Inducement Restricted Stock Units on the date of grant of the Inducement Restricted Stock Units) immediately following the Separation Event and after giving effect to the adjustment contemplated by Section 3(b)(iii)(G) of the Agreement.
Inducement Grant Number
 
In the event that, after the date of the Separation Event and prior to the expiration of the first fifteen trading days following the Separation Event, MDB Public changes the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock issued and outstanding as a result of a stock split, stock dividend, stock combination, recapitalization, reclassification or reorganization, the provisions of this shall be equitably adjusted to the extent necessary to reflect such transaction and to preserve the intent of the parties to this Agreement.
Exhibit D
The number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock underlying the MDB Public Restricted Shares ("") shall equal the product of (1) 0.1 and (2) the difference between (a) the Total Grant Number (b) the Inducement Grant Number.
Restricted Shares Number
minus
 
"" means the product of (1) the Applicable Percentage and (2) the Shares Outstanding.
Total Grant Number
 
"" means:
Applicable Percentage
 
(1) if the Market Capitalization is equal to or less than $6.0 billion, 3.0000%; and
 
(2) if the Market Capitalization is greater than $6.0 billion, the product of (a) 3.0000% and (b) the Applicable Ratio, with the Applicable Percentage expressed as a percentage carried out to four decimal places; ,, that in no event will the Applicable Percentage be below 1.8000%.
provided
however
 
"" means the quotient obtained by dividing (1) $6.0 billion by (2) the Market Capitalization, with such ratio carried out to four decimal places.
Applicable Ratio
 
"" means the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock actually outstanding immediately following the Separation Event.
Shares Outstanding
 
"" means the product of (1) the Shares Outstanding and (2) the MDB Average Closing Price.
Market Capitalization
 
"" means the average closing price of MDB Public Common Stock for the first fifteen trading days following the Separation Event (including the closing price of MDB Public Common Stock on the date of the Separation Event if the stock trades on that date).
MDB Average Closing Price
 
"" means the sum of (1) the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock that would be issuable under the Inducement Stock Option (based on the original number of shares of Motorola Common Stock subject to the Inducement Stock Option on the date of grant of the Inducement Stock Option) immediately following the Separation Event and after giving effect to the adjustment contemplated by Section 3(b)(iii)(G) of the Agreement and (2) the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock underlying the Inducement Restricted Stock Units (based on the original number of shares of Motorola Common Stock underlying the Inducement Restricted Stock Units on the date of grant of the Inducement Restricted Stock Units) immediately following the Separation Event and after giving effect to the adjustment contemplated by Section 3(b)(iii)(G) of the Agreement.
Inducement Grant Number
 
In the event that, after the date of the Separation Event and prior to the expiration of the first fifteen trading days following the Separation Event, MDB Public changes the number of shares of MDB Public Common Stock issued and outstanding as a result of a stock split, stock dividend, stock combination, recapitalization, reclassification or reorganization, the provisions of this shall be equitably adjusted to the extent necessary to reflect such transaction and to preserve the intent of the parties to this Agreement.
Exhibit E
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Motorola Targets First Quarter 2011 to Separate into Two Independent, Publicly Traded Companies
 
Mobile Devices and Home Businesses Target Growth Opportunities from Convergence of Mobility, Media and the Internet
 
Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks Businesses to Focus on Mission - and Business - Critical Solutions for Enterprise, Government and Wireless Operators
 
Company to Host Conference Call Today at 5:00 p.m. ET
 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., February 11, 2010  . (NYSE: MOT) today announced the Company is targeting the first quarter of 2011 for its planned separation.  Motorola intends to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies. One will include the Company's Mobile Devices and Home businesses, and the other will include its Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks businesses.
Motorola, Inc
 
Dr. Sanjay Jha, co-chief executive officer of Motorola, Inc., will serve as chief executive officer of Motorola's Mobile Devices and Home businesses effective immediately.  This business will offer a comprehensive portfolio of mobile converged devices, digital entertainment devices in the home, and end-to-end video, voice and data solutions.  Working with network operator partners, the company will also enable more advanced personalized services that leverage the capability of expanding wireless and wireline broadband availability.
 
Dr. Jha said, "The combination of Mobile Devices and our Home business brings together two highly complementary and innovative organizations. Together we will be best positioned to lead in the convergence of mobility, media, and the Internet.  Our expanding portfolio of smartphones and end-to-end video content delivery capabilities will enable us to provide advanced mobile media solutions and multi-screen experiences for our customers."
 
Greg Brown, co-chief executive officer of Motorola, Inc., will serve as chief executive officer of Motorola's Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks businesses effective immediately. This business will offer a comprehensive end-to-end portfolio of products and solutions, including rugged two-way radios, mobile computers, secure public safety systems, scanning, RFID, and wireless network infrastructure.
 
Mr. Brown said, "We are the leading mission- and business-critical technology solutions provider with a commitment to innovation.  As an independent company, we will continue to build on our long-standing tradition of strong
 
 
customer relationships, leading-edge product development, quality, thought leadership, and solid financial performance."
 
"The board of directors supports the planned separation of Motorola into two industry-leading public companies," said David Dorman, chairman of Motorola's Board of Directors.  "We believe this structure provides significant operational and strategic flexibility for both companies, positions them for future success, and enhances long-term shareholder value."
 
Completing the Separation
Motorola intends to effect the separation through a tax-free stock dividend of shares in the new company to Motorola shareholders.  Following the separation both businesses will be well capitalized so the companies can execute their respective business plans and be able to address future opportunities.  Motorola expects that, post-separation, the Enterprise Mobility and Networks business will be capitalized in a manner that will achieve an investment grade rating and will be the entity responsible for Motorola's existing public market debt at the time of separation.
 
Following the separation event both entities will use the Motorola brand. The Mobile Devices and Home business is expected to own the Motorola brand and license it royalty free to the Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Networks business. Additional details regarding brand, capital structure and which entity will be distributed will be provided in the future as we progress with our plans.
 
The proposed tax-free spin-off is expected to be accomplished through a pro rata distribution to Motorola shareholders.  Completion of the spin-off is subject to a number of conditions, including, among others, confirmation of the tax-free nature of the transaction, as well as effectiveness of a Form 10 Registration Statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  Motorola will distribute an information statement to shareholders following completion of the SEC's review of the Form 10.
 
The Company noted that there can be no assurance that any separation transaction will ultimately occur or, if one does occur, there can be no assurances as to its terms or timing.
 
About Motorola
Motorola is known around the world for innovation in communications and focused on advancing the way the world connects.  From broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety solutions to high-definition video and mobile devices, Motorola is leading the next wave of innovations that enable people, enterprises and governments to be more connected and more mobile.  Motorola (NYSE: MOT) had sales of US $22 billion in 2009. For more information, please visit www.motorola.com.
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Motorola will host a conference call today February 11, 2010 beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (USA) to discuss today's announcement.  The conference call will be webcast live at www.motorola.com/investor.
 
Business Risks
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements about: the separation of the Company into two independent publicly-traded companies, the terms and the effect of the separation, the nature and impact of such a separation, capitalization of the companies, future strategic plans and other possible actions related to the Company's businesses.  Motorola cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 18 through 30 in Item 1A of Motorola's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), could cause Motorola's actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) market conditions in general and those applicable to possible alternatives for the businesses; (2) tax and regulatory matters;  (3) possible negative effects on the Company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of its plan to separate into two independent, publicly-traded companies; (4) the economic outlook for the telecommunications and broadband industries; (5) the Company's ability to improve financial performance in its Mobile Devices business; (6) the level of demand for the Company's products, particularly in light of global economic conditions which may lead consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news; (7) the Company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (8) unexpected negative consequences from the Company's restructuring and cost reduction activities, including as a result of significant restructuring at the Mobile Devices business; (9) negative impact on the Company's business from the global financial crisis, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the Company's products; (ii) the viability of the Company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) reduced value of investments held by the Company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of the Company's debt and equity investments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the Company's financial position; (vi) difficulties or increased costs for the Company in obtaining financing; and (vii) the inability of the Company to sell accounts receivable and long-term receivables in volumes and on terms comparable to historical practices; and (10) the impact on the Company from ongoing consolidation in the telecommunications and broadband industries; and  (11) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations. Motorola undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Media Contact:
Jennifer Erickson
Motorola, Inc.
+1-847-435-5320
jennifer.erickson@motorola.com
 
Investor Relations Contact:
Dean Lindroth
Motorola, Inc.
+1-847-576-6899
dean.lindroth@motorola.com
 


