FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20111027072534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On October 27, 2011, Motorola Solutions, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 1, 2011. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
for printable press release and financial tables.
Click here
 Oct. 27, 2011  (NYSE: MSI) announced today its third-quarter 2011 results highlighted by sales of $2.1 billion, up 10 percent from the third quarter of 2010 and driven by solid demand in all regions across both its Government and Enterprise segments.
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.
Motorola Solutions, Inc.
"Our customers continue to invest in solutions that increase revenues and improve operating efficiency," said Greg Brown, chairman and CEO of Motorola Solutions. "In addition to our robust growth this quarter, we returned significant capital to shareholders. We repurchased $744 million of stock, initiated our dividend and generated very strong operating cash flow."
GAAP operating earnings in the third quarter of 2011 were $253 million or 12 percent of sales, compared to $211 million or 11 percent of sales in the third quarter of 2010. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations** were $0.45, compared to a GAAP loss of $0.04 in the third quarter of 2010.
Non-GAAP*** operating earnings in the third quarter of 2011 were $358 million or 17 percent of sales, compared to $289 million or 15 percent of sales in the third quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.65, compared to $0.54 in the third quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP financial information excludes after-tax benefits of approximately $0.20 per diluted share related to stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items. Details on these Non-GAAP adjustments and the use of Non-GAAP measures are included later in this press release.
During the third quarter of 2011, the company generated $477 million in operating cash flow from continuing operations. The company ended the quarter with total cash* of $6.3 billion while returning $744 million to shareholders through share repurchases during the quarter.
segment sales were $1.4 billion, up 9 percent from the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $185 million or 13 percent of sales compared to $159
Government
million or 13 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $223 million or 16 percent of sales compared to $175 million or 14 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter.
Government highlights:
 
 
 
 
segment sales were $726 million, up 13 percent from the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $68 million or 9 percent of sales compared to $52 million or 8 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $135 million or 19 percent of sales compared to $114 million or 18 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter.
Enterprise
Enterprise highlights:
 
 
 
 
Results from Discontinued Operations
The third-quarter net loss from discontinued operations was $24 million, which substantially relates to an after-tax charge for an expected purchase price adjustment associated with the sale of the company's Networks business in the second quarter of 2011.
Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Outlook
The company has raised its expected full-year revenue outlook to approximately 7 percent growth with operating earnings of approximately 16.5 percent of sales. Fourth-quarter sales are expected to grow between 2 and 3 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2010 and approximately 7 percent compared with the third quarter of 2011. Earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be $0.78 to $0.83. This outlook excludes stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and charges associated with items of the variety typically highlighted by the company in its quarterly earnings releases.
Consolidated GAAP Results
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
 
Highlighted Items, Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Intangible Assets Amortization Expense
The table below includes highlighted items, stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense for the third quarter of 2011.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Motorola Solutions will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 7 a.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time (8 a.m. U.S. Eastern Daylight Time) on Thursday, Oct. 27. The conference call will be webcast live with audio and slides at .
www.motorolasolutions.com/investor
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
In addition to the GAAP results included in this presentation, Motorola Solutions also has included non-GAAP measurements of results. We have provided these non-GAAP measurements to help investors better understand our core operating performance, enhance comparisons of core operating performance from period to period and allow better comparisons of operating performance to our competitors. Among other things, management uses these operating results, excluding the identified items, to evaluate performance of the businesses and to evaluate results relative to certain incentive compensation targets. Management uses operating results excluding these items because it believes this measurement enables it to make better period-to-period evaluations of the financial performance of core business operations. The non-GAAP measurements are intended only as a supplement to the comparable GAAP measurements and the company compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of non-GAAP measurements by using GAAP measures in conjunction with the non-GAAP measurements. As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measurements in addition to, and not in substitution for or as superior to, measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The company has excluded the effects of highlighted items (and any reversals of highlighted items recorded in prior periods) from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements because the company believes that these historical items do not reflect expected future operating earnings or expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's current operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
Highlighted items:
The company has excluded stock-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees and the company believes such compensation contributed to the revenue earned during the periods presented and also believes it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, the company continues to evaluate its performance excluding stock-based compensation expense primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense. Stock-based compensation expense will recur in future periods.
Stock-based compensation expense:
The company has excluded intangible assets amortization expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements, primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense and
Intangible assets amortization expense:
because the company evaluates its performance excluding intangible assets amortization expense. Amortization of intangible assets is consistent in amount and frequency but is significantly affected by the timing and size of the company's acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to the company's revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to the company's future period revenues as well. Intangible assets amortization expense will recur in future periods.
Details of the above items and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measurements to the corresponding GAAP measurements can be found at the end of this press release.
Business Risks
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes," "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "estimates" and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the timing and ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchase program, our ability to pay future dividends, and Motorola Solutions' financial outlook for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011. Motorola Solutions cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 12 through 25 in Item 1A of Motorola Solutions, Inc.'s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, on page 46 in Item 1A of Motorola Solutions, Inc.'s First Quarter Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in its other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at and on Motorola Solutions' website at , could cause Motorola Solutions' actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by Motorola Solutions and factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) possible negative effects on the company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of the separation into two independent, publicly traded companies, which may include: (i) diminished purchasing leverage and increased exposure to market fluctuations as a result of being a smaller, more focused company, (ii) ongoing obligations relating to certain debt and pension liabilities and certain corporate litigation matters retained by Motorola Solutions after the separation, and (iii) the ownership of certain logos, trademarks, trade names and service marks including "MOTOROLA" by Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.; (2) the economic outlook for the government and enterprise communications industries; (3) the level of demand for the company's products, particularly if businesses and governments defer purchases in response to tighter credit; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) unexpected negative consequences from the company's restructuring and cost reduction activities; (6) negative impact on the company's business from global economic conditions, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the company's products; (ii) the viability of the company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) changes in the value of investments held by the company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of the company's debt and equity investments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the company's financial position; and (vi) difficulties or increased costs for the company in obtaining financing; (7) the company's
www.sec.gov
www.motorolasolutions.com
ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions and the flooding that is currently occurring in Thailand; (8) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (9) the impact on the company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (10) risks related to the company's manufacturing and business operations in foreign countries; (11) the creditworthiness of the company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (12) risks related to the fact that certain customers require that the company build, own and operate their systems, often over a multi-year period; (13) variability in income received from licensing the company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the company licenses intellectual property from others; (14) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings; (15) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, including the negative impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar on the company when competing for business in foreign markets; (16) the impact of the increased percentage of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States; (17) the ability of the company to repurchase shares under its repurchase program due to possible adverse market conditions or adverse impacts on the company's cash flow; (18) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (19) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (20) negative consequences from the company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Definitions
 
About Motorola Solutions
Motorola Solutions is a leading provider of mission-critical communication solutions and services for enterprise and government customers. Through leading-edge innovation and communications technology, it is a global leader that enables its customers to be their best in the moments that matter. Motorola Solutions trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "MSI." To learn more, visit . For ongoing news, please visit our or subscribe to our .
www.motorolasolutions.com
media center
news feed
Media Contacts
Nick Sweers
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com
Tama McWhinney
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-538-1865
tama.mcwhinney@motorolasolutions.com
Investor Contacts
Shep Dunlap
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-6899
shep.dunlap@motorolasolutions.com
Jason Winkler
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-4995
jason.winkler@motorolasolutions.com
MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
  *Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities - Capital expenditures
 
 
 
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales and Operating earnings by reportable segment for the three and nine months ended Ocobter 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010.
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
 


