FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20110317170613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Motorola Solutions Annual Incentive Plan
On March 14, 2011, the Compensation and Leadership Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Motorola Solutions Annual Incentive Plan (the "AIP") effective January 1, 2011. Below is a summary of the key terms of the AIP.
The AIP has been established to attract top talent, retain and motivate employees, and incent employees for strong business and individual performance. The AIP, which replaces the 2009 Motorola Incentive Plan, is based on successive calendar year performance periods commencing January 1, 2011 and thereafter. The AIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended and restated, or its successor (the "Omnibus Plan").
All full-time or part-time employees of the Company and certain subsidiaries may participate in the AIP, subject to certain exceptions. All of the named executive officers participate in the AIP.
A target award is established for each participant at the beginning of a plan year based on a percentage of the participant's eligible earnings (the "Target Award Percentage"). The Committee determines the Target Award Percentage for each participant who is (i) subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, (ii) subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or (iii) designated as a member of the Motorola Solutions Senior Leadership Team. For 2011, a participant's maximum earned award will be 196% of his or her Target Award Percentage.
The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated business performance factors determined by the Committee, as well as individual performance factors based on employee performance relative to their individual performance objectives. Business performance factors are based on performance criteria as determined by the Committee. The Committee has determined that the business performance factors for 2011 are Free Cash Flow and Operating Earnings.
Awards will be calculated after the close of each plan year and the Committee will approve the final business performance factor and aggregate dollar payout amount. The Committee also approves the individual performance factor and the actual award payout for each participant who is (i) subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, (ii) subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or (iii) designated as a member of the Motorola Solutions Senior Leadership Team. All earned awards will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable during the calendar year immediately following the close of a plan year, unless a participant makes an irrevocable election under a deferred compensation arrangement that provides for payment at a different time.
The preceding summary of the Motorola Solutions AIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the plan, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein.
Motorola Solutions Long Range Incentive Plan
On March 14, 2011, the Committee approved the Company's Long Range Incentive Plan (the "LRIP") effective January 4, 2011. Below is a summary of the key terms of the LRIP.
The LRIP has been established to encourage premier talent to serve as officers of Motorola Solutions and to furnish those officers with competitive incentives which drive long-term business results and improve shareholder returns. The LRIP, which replaces the Motorola Long Range Incentive Plan of 2009, is based on successive multi-year performance cycles. The first cycle, which covers a three-year performance cycle, commenced January 4, 2011. The LRIP is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan.
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents of Motorola Solutions, as approved by the Committee, may participate in the LRIP. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, if any, are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee.
A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance cycle based on a percentage of the participant's base pay in effect at that time. A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his or her target award. The award earned will be based on the achievement of stated performance goals determined by the Committee based on one or more of the performance criteria set forth in Section 14 of the Omnibus Plan. Performance criteria may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during the entire performance cycle, or a combination of both. The Committee has determined that the performance criteria for the 2011-2013 performance cycle is Relative Total Shareholder Return against the 2011 Motorola Solutions Comparator Group, with Committee discretion to reduce (but not increase) the final payout percentage if the Company's Total Shareholder Return for the 2011-2013 performance cycle is negative.
Awards will be calculated after the close of each performance cycle on which the awards are based. All earned awards will be paid in cash or shares of Company common stock, as determined by the Committee, as soon as administratively practicable in the calendar year immediately following the last calendar year of a performance cycle, unless a participant makes an irrevocable election under a deferred compensation arrangement that provides for payment at a different time. The Company shares will be issued under the Omnibus Plan, or such other shareholder approved Motorola Solutions equity-based incentive plan as designated by the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to administer, construe and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the LRIP.
The preceding summary of the Motorola Solutions LRIP and the performance criteria for the 2011-2013 performance cycle are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the LRIP and the description of Relative Total Shareholder Return, which are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 17, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
Overview
The Motorola Solutions, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan ("AIP") has been established to: (i) attract and retain Employees of Motorola Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Motorola Solutions" or the "Company") through competitive rewards, (ii) align individual efforts with the Company's business goals and (iii) reward Employees for strong individual and business performance. The Plan is based on calendar-year performance periods commencing January 1, 2011. The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Plan. Capitalized terms are defined in the "Definitions" section below.
Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in this Plan, an individual must:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AIP Committee may modify the foregoing eligibility provisions to exclude groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the AIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Award Calculation
AIP awards will be calculated and paid after the close of each Plan Year. The award amount will be based on the Employee's Eligible Earnings, Target Award Percentage, and the applicable Business and Individual Performance Factors, as each is defined in the Definitions section, as follows:
 
The AIP Committee will oversee the determination of Eligible Earnings for each country, consistent with their respective legal and practical requirements. The AIP Committee will oversee the determination of inclusions and exclusions from Eligible Earnings to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis as the AIP Committee deems necessary or appropriate.
Target Award Percentages for each Plan Year for Participants who are (i) subject to Section 162(m), (ii) subject to Section 16 or (iii) designated as a member of the Motorola Solutions Senior Leadership Team shall be determined by the Compensation Committee. Target Award Percentages for each Plan Year for all other Participants shall be determined by the AIP Committee.
Business Performance Factors shall be based on financial and/or non-financial factors, as may be determined by the Compensation Committee in its complete discretion.
Individual Performance Factors shall be based on the performance of Participants in contributing to the Company's business performance. Managers will determine an Individual Performance Factor for each Participant; provided, however, that Individual Performance Factors are limited to the range established each Plan Year by the Compensation Committee in its complete discretion. The AIP Committee may determine additional limitations and guidelines regarding the selection of Individual Performance Factors within the limitations established by the Compensation Committee.
Establishing Performance Measures and Goals
Annually, the Compensation Committee will establish the following for the Plan Year no later than the 90
th
day of the Plan Year:
 
 
The Compensation Committee will review progress against the performance measures periodically throughout the year. At the end of the Plan Year, the Compensation Committee will review full year performance and the corresponding management recommendations regarding each Business Performance Factor. The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, will determine the final Business Performance Factors for the Company and/or any business unit, as appropriate.
Payout Process
 
 
General Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AIP Committee may modify the foregoing administrative provisions as it deems necessary or appropriate to apply to groups of employees on a country-wide or business unit/organizational basis.
Definitions
: the committee to which the Compensation Committee may delegate certain powers and duties as described above. Unless otherwise determined, the AIP Committee will consist of the Senior Human Resources Officer, a senior Compensation Officer and a senior Finance Officer. The AIP Committee may establish self-governance procedures such as by-laws, and shall keep minutes regarding all actions taken by the AIP Committee.
AIP Committee
: the business performance measures used to calculate an award under this Plan.
Business Performance Factors
includes, but is not limited to, the Motorola Solutions, Inc. 2011 Senior Officer Change in Control Plan, the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Legacy Senior Officer Amended and Restated Change in Control Plan, the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Legacy Corporate Officer Amended and Restated Change in Control Plan and the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Legacy Corporate Officer Transition Amended and Restated Change in Control Plan.
Change in Control Severance Plan:
: Motorola Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors.
Compensation Committee
:officers (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Persons
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin off or similar transaction wherein a subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola Solutions stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of the Company or a subsidiary.
Divestiture
that portion of a Participant's compensation for the Plan Year to be used to calculate an award under this Plan.
Eligible Earnings:
: a person in an employee-employer relationship with the Company whose base wage or base salary is processed for payment by the payroll department(s) of the Company or a subsidiary, and not by any other department of the Company. The term Employee shall exclude the following:
Employee
 
 
 
Such individuals shall be precluded from retroactive participation in the Plan, even if a court or governmental or regulatory entity subsequently reclassifies such individuals as common law employees of the Company on a retroactive basis.
the individual Participant performance measures used to calculate an award under this Plan.
Individual Performance Factor:
Leave of Absence: an approved leave of absence.
: the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as Amended and Restated January 4, 2011, or any subsequent amendment and restatement, or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
: an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements set forth above.
Participant
the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan:
calendar-year performance periods commencing each January 1 and ending the subsequent December 31.
Plan Year:
: this Plan utilizes the definition of "retiree" and "retirement" that appear in the primary retirement plan covering the Participant.
Retired or Retirement
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16:
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.
Section 162(m):
direct reports to the Chief Executive Officer, or as defined by the Chief Executive Officer from time to time.
Senior Leadership Team:
any misconduct identified as a ground for termination in the Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, or the human resources policies or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct:
target award percentages applicable to each Participant and used to calculate an award under this Plan, as determined by the Compensation Committee or the AIP Committee.
Target Award Percentages:
for (i) U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Solutions Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan or a determination of a permanent and total disability under a state workers compensation statute and (ii) non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola Solutions policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability:
If a term is used but not defined in the Plan, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
Applicable Law
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.

Exhibit 10.2
O
VERVIEW
The Plan is being implemented pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 as Amended and Restated January 4, 2011.
E
LIGIBILITY
Effective January 4, 2011, Officers of Motorola Solutions, Inc. ("Motorola Solutions" or the "Company") shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer (if any) are also eligible to participate as approved by the Committee. No employee who is not an Officer shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
P
ARTICIPATION
Generally, Officers who become eligible to participate during the first three months of a multi-year performance cycle will participate in the full performance cycle. Officers who become eligible to participate after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a pro rata basis, except that Officers who first become eligible to participate during the last three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
Participants who lose their eligibility to participate due to a lapse of status as an Officer after the first three months of a performance cycle will participate in the performance cycle on a pro rata basis if they continue to be employed with the Company through the last day of the performance cycle or if their employment terminates earlier under any of the conditions outlined in this Plan permitting pro rata payments. Participants who lose their eligibility to participate in the first three months of a performance cycle will not be eligible to participate in the performance cycle.
Pro rata awards will be determined on the basis of the number of completed months of employment as an Officer during which the participant is actively working within the performance cycle.
P C
ERFORMANCE
YCLE
The Plan is based upon multi-year performance cycles selected by the Committee, with an initial three-year performance cycle beginning on January 4, 2011 and ending December 31, 2013.
P
ERFORMANCE
CRITERIA
Performance criteria for each cycle will be determined by the Committee based on one or more of the Performance Criteria set forth in Section 14 of the Omnibus Plan.
Performance criteria may apply to performance in each year in the performance cycle, to cumulative performance during multiple years in the performance cycle or the entire performance cycle, or a combination of any of the foregoing.
P' T & M A
ARTICIPANTS
ARGET
AXIMUM
WARD
A participant's target award is established at the commencement of a performance cycle based on a percentage of the participant's base pay rate in effect at the start of the performance cycle.
A participant's maximum earned award will be two times his/her target award.
P P
AYOUT
ROCESS
 
 
 
 
S A T P
ITUATIONS
FFECTING
HE
LAN
 - 
Change in Employment
 
 
 
 
A prorated payout will be based on final performance results and paid in the same manner and at the same time as other awards, as described above in "Payout Process."
 
 - 
Change in Control
If the Company undergoes a Change in Control as defined in the Omnibus Plan, the treatment of outstanding awards under this Plan shall be determined by the terms of
the Omnibus Plan in effect at the time of the commencement of the performance cycle; provided, however, that payment will be made in the manner set forth under "Payout Process" unless payment under the Omnibus Plan is due upon a Change in Control and such Change in Control would be a permissible distribution event, as defined in Section 409A(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
R A R O C R
ESERVATION
ND
ETENTION
F
OMPANY
IGHTS
 
 
 
 
A
DMINISTRATION
It is expressly understood that the Committee has the discretionary authority to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, all of which will be binding upon the participant.
G P
ENERAL
ROVISIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
D
EFINITIONS
: the closing price of one share of Company common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date on which the Committee certifies the amount of the award earned.
Certification Date Value
: Motorola Solutions, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
Company
: the Compensation and Leadership Committee of the Board of Directors.
Committee
: a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Covered Employee
: officer(s) (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of the Company.
Covered Person(s)
: the sale, lease, outsourcing arrangement, spin-off, or similar transaction wherein a Subsidiary is sold or whose shares are distributed to the Motorola Solutions stockholders, or any other type of asset transfer or transfer of any portion of a facility or any portion of a discrete organizational unit of Company or a Subsidiary.
Divestiture
an approved leave of absence.
Leave of Absence:
: the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as Amended and Restated January 4, 2011, or any subsequent amendment and restatement or any successor plan.
Omnibus Plan
Corporate, Senior and Executive Vice Presidents, Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Officers:
the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Long Range Incentive Plan (LRIP).
Plan:
: a restatement of the Company's financial results
Policy Restatement
: the Company's "Policy Regarding Recoupment of Incentive Payments upon Financial Restatement", as it may be amended from time to time.
Recoupment Policy
: shall only apply in countries other than member states or acceding countries of the European Union and shall mean voluntary or involuntary termination from Motorola Solutions or a Subsidiary (other than a termination because of Serious Misconduct) as follows:
Retire or Retirement
 
 
 
Years of service will be based on the participant's Service Club Date.
accumulated years and months of service with the Company, including time worked before any prior separation from employment.
Service Club Date:
: an entity of which Motorola Solutions, Inc. owns directly or indirectly at least 50% and that Motorola Solutions consolidates for financial reporting purposes.
Subsidiary
: any misconduct that is a ground for termination under the Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, human resources policies, or other written policies or procedures.
Serious Misconduct
: for U.S. employees, entitlement to long-term disability benefits under the Motorola Solutions Disability Income Plan, as amended and any successor plan; for non-U.S. employees, as established by applicable Motorola Solutions policy or as required by local regulations.
Total and Permanent Disability
If a term is used but not defined, it has the meaning given such term in the Omnibus Plan.
A, M, A T
MENDMENT
ODIFICATION
ND
ERMINATION
Except as expressly provided by law, this Plan is provided at the Company's sole discretion and the Committee may modify or terminate it at any time, prospectively or retroactively, without notice or obligation for any reason; provided, however, that no such action may adversely affect a participant's rights under the Plan subsequent to such time as negotiations or discussions which ultimately lead to a Change in Control have commenced. In addition, there is no obligation to extend the Plan or establish a replacement plan or performance cycle(s) in subsequent years.
A L
PPLICABLE
AW
To the extent not preempted by federal law, or otherwise provided by local law, the Plan will be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of Illinois without regard to any state's conflicts of laws principles. Any legal action related to this Plan shall be brought only in a federal or state court located in Illinois.

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
In the event a comparator company stops being publically traded before July 1, 2012, the company will be excluded from the TSR rank at the end of the performance cycle and the payout scale will be adjusted as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


