FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20110728072125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Form 8-K that is furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 28, 2011, Motorola Solutions, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended July 2, 2011. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) On July 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company determined to increase the size of the Board of Directors from eight directors to nine directors. In connection therewith, the Board of Directors elected Kenneth C. Dahlberg to the Board of Directors, effective immediately, to serve until the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting and the election and qualification of his successor or, if earlier, until his death or resignation or removal from the Board of Directors.
On July 26, 2011, the Board of Directors also appointed Mr. Dahlberg as a member of the Audit and Legal Committee and as a member of the Compensation and Leadership Committee.
Mr. Dahlberg will receive the standard compensation received by non-employee directors. This compensation arrangement was described in the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed on March 15, 2011 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As disclosed in the definitive proxy statement, a non-employee director will be granted deferred stock units, pro-rated based on the number of months served with a value of $10,000 per month, divided by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the day of election.
The press release announcing Mr. Dahlberg's election is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
 
On July 28, 2011, the Company issued a press release which, among other things, announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the initiation of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per share, with the first dividend payable on October 14, 2011 to stockholders of record at the close of business on September 15, 2011.
On July 28, 2011, the Company issued a press release which, among other things, announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program to permit the Company to purchase up to $2 billion of its outstanding common shares through December 31, 2012. The Company may repurchase shares from time to time in the open market or in other privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 July 28, 2011  (NYSE: MSI) announced today its second-quarter 2011 results highlighted by sales of $2.1 billion, up 6 percent from the second quarter of 2010 and driven by solid demand across both its Government and Enterprise segments.
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.
Motorola Solutions, Inc.
In addition, the company announced today that its board of directors has authorized the initiation of a regular quarterly dividend of $0.22 per outstanding share of the company's common stock. The first dividend will be payable on Oct. 14, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Sept. 15, 2011. As part of a broader return of capital plan, the company's board has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion through the end of 2012. The company may repurchase shares from time to time in the open market or in other privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions.
Greg Brown, chairman and CEO of Motorola Solutions, said: "Our solid revenue growth and improved operating leverage further demonstrate the strength of our business. Based on this performance, we have raised our full year outlook. Additionally, the dividend and share repurchase program reinforce our commitment to return capital to shareholders while maintaining strategic flexibility."
GAAP operating earnings in the second quarter of 2011 were $170 million or 8 percent of sales, compared to $161 million or 8 percent of sales in the second quarter of 2010. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations** were $0.17, compared to $0.01 in the second quarter of 2010.
Non-GAAP*** operating earnings in the second quarter of 2011 were $315 million or 15 percent of sales, compared to $267 million or 14 percent of sales in the second quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.57, compared to $0.37 in the second quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP financial information excludes after-tax benefits of approximately $0.40 per diluted share related to stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and highlighted items. Details on these Non-GAAP adjustments and the use of Non-GAAP measures are included later in this press release.
During the second quarter of 2011, the company generated $102 million in operating cash flow from continuing operations. The company also retired $540 million in debt and ended the quarter with total cash* of $6.7 billion.
segment sales were $1.3 billion, up 4 percent from the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $111 million or 8 percent of sales compared to $117 million or 9 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $174 million or 13 percent of sales compared to $158 million or 13 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter.
Government
Government highlights:
 
 
 
segment sales were $747 million, up 11 percent from the year-ago quarter. GAAP operating earnings were $59 million or 8 percent of sales compared to $44 million or 7 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating earnings were $141 million or 19 percent of sales compared to $109 million or 16 percent of sales in the year-ago quarter.
Enterprise
Enterprise highlights:
 
 
 
Results from Discontinued Operations
Second-quarter net earnings from discontinued operations were $291 million, which substantially relate to operations of the Networks business that Motorola Solutions sold to Nokia Siemens Networks on April 29, 2011 for net cash proceeds in excess of $1 billion.
Third-Quarter and Full Year 2011 Outlook
The company expects to see growth across both government and enterprise segments. Third-quarter sales are expected to grow between 7 and 8 percent over the third quarter of 2010 with EPS from continuing operations of $0.56 to $0.61. This outlook excludes stock-based compensation expense, intangible assets amortization expense and charges associated with items of the variety typically highlighted by the company in its quarterly earnings releases. The company now expects full-year revenue growth of 5.5 to 6 percent with operating earnings of approximately 16.5 percent of sales.
Consolidated GAAP Results
A comparison of results from operations is as follows:
 
Highlighted Items, Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Intangible Assets Amortization Expense
The table below includes highlighted items, stock-based compensation expense and intangible assets amortization expense for the second quarter of 2011.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Motorola Solutions will host its quarterly conference call beginning at 7 a.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time (8 a.m. U.S. Eastern Daylight Time) on Thursday, July 28. The conference call will be webcast live with audio and slides at .
www.motorolasolutions.com/investor
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
In addition to the GAAP results included in this presentation, Motorola Solutions also has included non-GAAP measurements of results. We have provided these non-GAAP measurements to help investors better understand our core operating performance, enhance comparisons of core operating performance from period to period and allow better comparisons of operating performance to our competitors. Among other things, management uses these operating results, excluding the identified items, to evaluate performance of the businesses and to evaluate results relative to certain incentive compensation targets. Management uses operating results excluding these items because it believes this measurement enables it to make better period-to-period evaluations of the financial performance of core business operations. The non-GAAP measurements are intended only as a supplement to the comparable GAAP measurements and the company compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of non-GAAP measurements by using GAAP measures in conjunction with the non-GAAP measurements. As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measurements in addition to, and not in substitution for or as superior to, measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The company has excluded the effects of highlighted items (and any reversals of highlighted items recorded in prior periods) from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements because the company believes that these historical items do not reflect expected future operating earnings or expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's current operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
Highlighted items:
The company has excluded stock-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees and the company believes such compensation contributed to the revenue earned during the periods presented and also believes it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, the company continues to evaluate its performance excluding stock-based compensation expense primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense. Stock-based compensation expense will recur in future periods.
Stock-based compensation expense:
The company has excluded intangible assets amortization expense from its non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measurements, primarily because it represents a significant non-cash expense and because the company evaluates its performance excluding intangible assets amortization expense. Amortization of intangible assets is consistent in amount and frequency but is significantly affected by the timing and size of the company's acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to the company's revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to the company's future period revenues as well. Intangible assets amortization expense will recur in future periods.
Intangible assets amortization expense:
Details of the above items and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measurements to the corresponding GAAP measurements can be found at the end of this press release.
Business Risks
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as "believes," "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "estimates" and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this release. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the timing and ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchase program, our ability to pay future dividends, and Motorola Solutions' financial outlook for the third quarter and full year of 2011. Motorola Solutions cautions the reader that the risk factors below, as well as those on pages 12 through 25 in Item 1A of Motorola Solutions, Inc.'s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, on page 46 in Item 1A of Motorola Solutions, Inc.'s First Quarter Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in its other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at and on Motorola Solutions' website at , could cause Motorola Solutions' actual results to differ materially from those estimated or predicted in the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by Motorola Solutions and factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) possible negative effects on the company's business operations, financial performance or assets as a result of the separation into two independent, publicly traded companies, which may include: (i) diminished purchasing leverage and increased exposure to market fluctuations as a result of being a smaller, more focused company, (ii) ongoing obligations relating to certain debt and pension liabilities and certain corporate litigation matters retained by Motorola Solutions after the separation, and (iii) the ownership of certain logos, trademarks, trade names and service marks including "MOTOROLA" by Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.; (2) the economic outlook for the government and enterprise communications industries; (3) the level of demand for the company's products,
www.sec.gov
www.motorolasolutions.com
particularly if businesses and governments defer purchases in response to tighter credit; (4) the company's ability to introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner; (5) unexpected negative consequences from the company's restructuring and cost reduction activities; (6) negative impact on the company's business from global economic conditions, which may include: (i) the inability of customers to obtain financing for purchases of the company's products; (ii) the viability of the company's suppliers that may no longer have access to necessary financing; (iii) changes in the value of investments held by the company's pension plan and other defined benefit plans; (iv) fair and/or actual value of the company's debt and equity investments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; (v) counterparty failures negatively impacting the company's financial position; and (vi) difficulties or increased costs for the company in obtaining financing; (7) the company's ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions and recent events in Japan; (8) risks related to dependence on certain key suppliers; (9) the impact on the company's performance and financial results from strategic acquisitions or divestitures, including those that may occur in the future; (10) risks related to the company's manufacturing and business operations in foreign countries; (11) the creditworthiness of the company's customers and distributors, particularly purchasers of large infrastructure systems; (12) risks related to the fact that certain customers require that the company build, own and operate their systems, often over a multi-year period; (13) variability in income received from licensing the company's intellectual property to others, as well as expenses incurred when the company licenses intellectual property from others; (14) unexpected liabilities or expenses, including unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or regulatory or similar proceedings; (15) the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, including the negative impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar on the company when competing for business in foreign markets; (16) the impact of the increased percentage of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States; (17) the ability of the company to repurchase shares under its repurchase program due to possible adverse market conditions or adverse impacts on the company's cash flow; (18) the impact of changes in governmental policies, laws or regulations; (19) the outcome of currently ongoing and future tax matters; and (20) negative consequences from the company's outsourcing of various activities, including certain manufacturing, information technology and administrative functions. Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Definitions
 
About Motorola Solutions
Motorola Solutions is a leading provider of mission-critical communication products and services for enterprise and government customers. Through leading-edge innovation and communications technology, it is a global leader that enables its customers to be their best in the moments that matter. Motorola Solutions trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "MSI." To learn more, visit . For ongoing news, please visit our or subscribe to our .
www.motorolasolutions.com
media center
news feed
About Gartner's MarketScope
The MarketScope is copyrighted 2011 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission. The MarketScope is an evaluation of a marketplace at and for a specific time period. It depicts Gartner's analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as defined by Gartner. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the MarketScope, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest rating. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
Media Contacts
Nick Sweers
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com
Tama McWhinney
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-538-1865
tama.mcwhinney@motorolasolutions.com
Investor Contacts
Shep Dunlap
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-6899
shep.dunlap@motorolasolutions.com
Jason Winkler
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-4995
jason.winkler@motorolasolutions.com
MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 
  *Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities - Capital expenditures
 
*Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities - Capital expenditures
 
Summarized below are the Company's Net sales and Operating earnings by reportable segment for the three and six months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010.
 
 
 
* Percentages may not add up due to rounding
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
(NYSE: MSI) today announced that Kenneth C. Dahlberg, former chairman and CEO of Science Applications International Corp. (SAIC), has been elected to its board of directors.
SCHAUMBURG, Ill.  July 27, 2011 
Motorola Solutions, Inc.
"We are delighted to have Ken join our board of directors," said Greg Brown, chairman and CEO of Motorola Solutions. "His diverse background and leadership working with government customers on information systems and advanced technology uniquely complement Motorola Solutions' focus on both government and enterprise markets. We look forward to his insights and leveraging his business expertise on our board."
Before retiring from SAIC as CEO in late 2009 and as chairman in June 2010, Dahlberg served as executive vice president of General Dynamics Corp., where he was responsible for its Information Systems and Technology group. Prior to that, he was president and chief operating officer of Raytheon Systems.
Dahlberg is a director of Teledyne Technologies, Inc. and Parsons Corp. Additionally, he is a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the Surface Navy Association, the Association of the U.S. Army, and a lifetime member of the U.S. Navy League.
He holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Drexel University and a master's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Southern California.
About Motorola Solutions
Motorola Solutions is a leading provider of mission-critical communication products and services for enterprise and government customers. Through leading-edge innovation and communications technology, it is a global leader that enables its customers to be their best in the moments that matter. Motorola Solutions trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "MSI." To learn more, visit . For ongoing news, please visit our or subscribe to our .
www.motorolasolutions.com
media center
news feed
Media Contact:
Nicholas Sweers
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com
MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.


