FILE:MSI/MSI-8K-20121026115312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
On October 26, 2012, the Board of Directors increased the size of the Board of Directors from eight directors to ten directors. In connection therewith, the Board of Directors elected Anne R. Pramagiorre to the Board of Directors, effective immediately, to serve until the Company's 2013 Annual Meeting and the election and qualification of her successor or, if earlier, her death or resignation or removal from the Board of Directors.
In addition, on October 26, 2012, pursuant to a Nomination and Standstill Agreement (the "Agreement"), dated October 26, 2012, by and among VA Partners I, LLC, ValueAct Capital Management, L.P., ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P., ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, ValueAct Holdings, L.P., ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC, Bradley E. Singer and Jeffrey W. Ubben (collectively, the "ValueAct Group") and the Company, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Singer to the Company's Board of Directors, effective as of October 26, 2012. The ValueAct Group represented in the Agreement that as of October 26, 2012, they collectively owned approximately 28.9 million shares (approximately 10.3% of the outstanding common stock of the Company as of September 29, 2012).
Pursuant to the Agreement, in addition to appointing Mr. Singer to the Board of Directors, the Company agreed to (i) nominate Mr. Singer for election to the Board of Directors at the Company's 2013 annual shareholders meeting (the "2013 Annual Meeting"), and (ii) in the event Mr. Singer resigns or is otherwise removed prior to the 2014 annual shareholders meeting, work in good faith with the ValueAct Group to appoint a mutually acceptable replacement nominee who meets the Company's historical standards and criteria so long as the ValueAct Group then owns at least 7.5% of the outstanding common stock of the Company.
Mr. Singer has agreed, while serving as a member of the Board of Directors to (i) meet all director independence and other standards of the Company, The New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) remain qualified to serve as a director under the Delaware General Corporation Law and (iii) comply with Company policies, guidelines and codes of conduct. The Company has also agreed that the ValueAct Group may receive certain information about the Company in accordance with a confidentiality agreement.
The Company's obligations under the Agreement will cease, and Mr. Singer (or his replacement) must offer to resign from the Board if the ValueAct Group ceases to hold at least 7.5% of the Company's common stock, the Agreement is breached or Mr. Singer (or his replacement) ceases to meet the requirements for Board service.
Pursuant to the Agreement, the ValueAct Group agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that until the date immediately after the date of the Company's 2014 annual shareholders meeting, the ValueAct Group will not, among other things: (i) acquire any securities of the Company if, immediately after such acquisition, the ValueAct Group would collectively own in the aggregate more than 12.5% of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company, (ii) propose or seek to effect any tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination involving the Company, or make any public statement with respect to such transaction, (iii) make, or in any way participate in any "proxy contest" or other solicitation of proxies, (iv) sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any voting securities of the Company to any person who is (or will become upon consummation of such sale, transfer or other disposition) a beneficial owner of 9.9% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or (v) engage in any "short selling" of the Company's securities. The Agreement contains certain other restrictions on activities by the ValueAct Group and certain of its affiliates and associates. Further, the ValueAct Group has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, to vote its shares in support of Company-nominated directors and otherwise in accordance with the recommendations of the Company's Board of Directors at the 2013 Annual Meeting.
The Agreement will terminate prior to the Company's 2014 annual shareholders meeting in certain circumstances.
The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Ms. Pramaggiore and Mr. Singer will receive the standard compensation received by non-employee directors. This compensation arrangement was described in the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed on March 12, 2012 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As disclosed in the definitive proxy statement, a non-employee director will be granted deferred stock units, pro-rated based on the number of months served with a value of $11,666.67 per month, divided by the closing price of Company Stock on the day of election.
On October 26, 2012, the Board of Directors also appointed Ms. Pramaggiore as a member of the Governance and Nominating Committee and Mr. Singer as a member of the Audit Committee.
The press release announcing these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
EXECUTION COPY
This Nomination and Standstill Agreement (this "") dated October 26, 2012, is by and among the persons and entities listed on (collectively, the "", and individually a "" of the ValueAct Group), Motorola Solutions, Inc. (the "") and Bradley E. Singer, in his individual capacity and as a member of the ValueAct Group (the "").
Agreement
Schedule A
ValueAct Group
member
Company
ValueAct Designee
WHEREAS, the ValueAct Group currently beneficially owns 28,907,623 shares of the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the ""), which represented approximately 10.1% of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of June 30, 2012;
Common Stock
WHEREAS, the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board (the "") and Company's Board of Directors (the "") have considered the qualifications of Mr. Singer and conducted such review as they have deemed appropriate, including as to reviewing materials provided by Mr. Singer and the ValueAct Group;
Nominating Committee
Board
WHEREAS, the Nominating Committee has recommended that the Board appoint Mr. Singer to the Board and the Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to do so on the terms set forth in this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, In consideration of and reliance upon the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. .
Board Nomination
(a) The Company agrees to add the ValueAct Designee to the Board contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement by increasing the size of the Board and filling the vacancy thereby created with the ValueAct Designee;
(b) The Company agrees to include the ValueAct Designee in its slate of nominees for election as directors of the Company at the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders;
(c) As a condition to the ValueAct Designee's appointment to the Board and nomination for election as a director of the Company at the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders, the ValueAct Group, including the ValueAct Designee, agrees to provide to the Company information required to be or customarily disclosed for directors, candidates for directors, and their affiliates and representatives in a proxy statement or other filings under applicable law or stock exchange rules or listing standards, information in connection with assessing eligibility, independence and other criteria applicable to directors or satisfying compliance and legal obligations, and such other information as reasonably requested by the Company from time to time with respect to the ValueAct Group and the ValueAct Designee.
(d) The ValueAct Designee agrees that at all times while serving as a member of the Board he will (i) meet all director independence and other standards of the Company, the New York Stock Exchange ("") and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("") and applicable provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including Rule 10a-3; and (ii) be qualified to serve as a director under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the ""). The ValueAct Designee will promptly advise the Nominating Committee if he ceases to satisfy any of the conditions in the preceding sentence.
NYSE
SEC
Exchange Act
DGCL
(e) At all times while serving as a member of the Board, the ValueAct Designee shall comply with all policies, procedures, processes, codes, rules, standards and guidelines applicable to Board members, including the Company's code of conduct, securities trading policy, and corporate governance guidelines, and (except as permitted by the Confidentiality Agreement) preserve the confidentiality of Company business and information, including discussions or matters considered in meetings of the Board or Board committees to the extent not disclosed publicly by the Company;
(f) So long as the ValueAct Group collectively beneficially owns, in the aggregate, at least 7.5% of the outstanding Common Stock, if during the Covered Period a vacancy on the Board is created as a result of the ValueAct Designee's death, resignation, disqualification or removal, or the nomination of the ValueAct Designee at the Company's 2013 annual meeting of stockholders is withdrawn for any reason, then the ValueAct Group and the Company (acting through the Board) shall work together in good faith to fill such vacancy or replace such nominee with an individual who (i) meets the conditions set forth in clauses (c)-(d) above, (ii) meets the historical standards and criteria applied by the Company in nominating and appointing directors, and (iii) is otherwise mutually acceptable (in each of their sole discretion) to the ValueAct Group and the Company, and thereafter such individual shall serve and/or be nominated as the "ValueAct Designee" under this Agreement.
(g) The Company's obligations hereunder shall terminate, and the ValueAct Designee shall promptly offer to resign from the Board (and, if requested by the Company, promptly deliver his written resignation to the Board (which shall provide for his immediate resignation) it being understood that it shall be in the Board's sole discretion whether to accept or reject such resignation) if (i) members of the ValueAct Group, collectively, cease to beneficially own at least 7.5% of the Company's outstanding Common Stock or (ii) the ValueAct Designee ceases to satisfy the conditions set forth in clauses (c)-(d) above or a member of the ValueAct Group, including the ValueAct Designee, otherwise ceases to comply or breaches any of the terms of this Agreement or the Confidentiality Agreement. The ValueAct Group agrees to cause the ValueAct Designee to resign from the Board if the ValueAct Designee fails to resign if and when requested pursuant to this clause (g).
(h) The percentage thresholds set forth in clauses (f) and (g) above shall not be deemed unsatisfied to the extent a failure to maintain the specified ownership thresholds is the result of share issuances or similar Company actions that increase the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock.
 
2. .
Standstill
(a) Each member of the ValueAct Group agrees that, during the Covered Period, (unless specifically requested in writing by the Company, acting through a resolution of a majority of the Company's directors not including the ValueAct Designee), it shall not, and shall cause each of its Affiliates or Associates (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act) (collectively and individually, the "," provided that no portfolio company of the ValueAct Group shall be deemed a "ValueAct Affiliate" so long as such portfolio company (i) has not discussed the Company or its business with the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Designee, (ii) has not received from the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Designee information concerning the Company or its business, and (iii) is not acting at the request of, in coordination with or on behalf of the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Designee), not to, directly or indirectly, in any manner, alone or in concert with others:
ValueAct Affiliates
(i) make, engage in, or in any way participate in, directly or indirectly, any "solicitation" of proxies (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the SEC but without regard to the exclusion set forth in Rule 14a-1(l)(2)(iv)) or consents to vote, or seek to advise, encourage or influence any person with respect to the voting of any securities of the Company for the election of individuals to the Board or to approve stockholder proposals, or become a "participant" in any contested "solicitation" for the election of directors with respect to the Company (as such terms are defined or used under the Exchange Act), other than a "solicitation" or acting as a "participant" in support of all of the nominees of the Board at any stockholder meeting, or make or be the proponent of any stockholder proposal (pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or otherwise);
(ii) form, join, encourage, influence, advise or in any way participate in any Group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with any persons who are not ValueAct Affiliates with respect to any securities of the Company or otherwise in any manner agree, attempt, seek or propose to deposit any securities of the Company or any securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for any such securities in any voting trust or similar arrangement, or subject any securities of the Company to any arrangement or agreement with respect to the voting thereof, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement;
(iii) acquire, offer or propose to acquire, or agree to acquire, directly or indirectly, whether by purchase, tender or exchange offer, through the acquisition of control of another person, by joining a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group (including any group of persons that would be treated as a single "person" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act), through swap or hedging transactions or otherwise, any securities of the Company or any rights decoupled from the underlying securities that would result in the ValueAct Group (together with the ValueAct Affiliates) owning, controlling or otherwise having any beneficial or other ownership interest in more than 12.5% in the aggregate of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time; provided that nothing herein will require Common Stock to be sold to the extent the ValueAct Group and the ValueAct Affiliates, collectively, exceeds the ownership limit under this paragraph as the result of a share repurchase or similar Company actions that reduces the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock;
 
(iv) sell, offer or agree to sell directly or indirectly, through swap or hedging transactions or otherwise, the securities of the Company or any rights decoupled from the underlying securities held by the ValueAct Group or any ValueAct Affiliate to any person or entity not a party to this agreement, member of the Board, director or officer of the Company, a ValueAct Affiliate, or legal counsel to any party to this Agreement (a "") that would knowingly result in such Third Party, together with its affiliates and associates, owning, controlling or otherwise having any beneficial or other ownership interest in the aggregate of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time, except in a transaction approved by the Board;
Third Party
(v) effect or seek to effect, offer or propose to effect, cause or participate in, or in any way assist or facilitate any other person to effect or seek, offer or propose to effect or participate in, any tender or exchange offer, merger, consolidation, acquisition, scheme, arrangement, business combination, recapitalization, reorganization, sale or acquisition of material assets, liquidation, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or joint ventures or any of their respective securities (each, an ""), or make any public statement with respect to an Extraordinary Transaction; provided, however, that this clause shall not preclude the tender by the ValueAct Group or a ValueAct Affiliate of any securities of the Company into any tender or exchange offer or vote by the ValueAct Group or a ValueAct Affiliate of any voting securities of the Company with respect to any Extraordinary Transaction;
Extraordinary Transaction
(vi) engage in any short sale or any purchase, sale or grant of any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or other similar right (including, without limitation, any put or call option or "swap" transaction) with respect to any security (other than a broad-based market basket or index) that includes, relates to or derives any significant part of its value from a decline in the market price or value of the Company's securities;
(vii) (A) call or seek to call any meeting of stockholders, including by written consent, (B) seek representation on the Board, except as set forth herein, (C) seek the removal of any member of the Board, (D) solicit consents from stockholders or otherwise act or seek to act by written consent, (E) conduct a referendum of stockholders or (F) make a request for any stockholder list or other Company books and records, whether pursuant to Section 220 of the DGCL or otherwise;
(viii) take any action in support of or make any proposal or request that constitutes: (A) advising, controlling, changing or influencing the Board or management of the Company, including any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any vacancies on the Board, (B) any material change in the capitalization or dividend policy of the Company, (C) any other material change in the Company's management, business or corporate structure, (D) seeking to have the
 
Company waive or make amendments or modifications to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, or other actions that may impede or facilitate the acquisition of control of the Company by any person, (E) causing a class of securities of the Company to be delisted from, or to cease to be authorized to be quoted on, any securities exchange; or (F) causing a class of equity securities of the Company to become eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Exchange Act;
(ix) disparage or cause to be disparaged the Company or Affiliates thereof, any of its current or former officers or directors;
(x) make any public disclosure, announcement or statement regarding any intent, purpose, plan or proposal with respect to the Board, the Company, its management, policies or affairs, any of its securities or assets or this Agreement that is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement;
(xi) enter into any discussions, negotiations, agreements or understandings with any Third Party with respect to any of the foregoing, or advise, assist, knowingly encourage or seek to persuade any Third Party to take any action or make any statement with respect to any of the foregoing, or otherwise take or cause any action or make any statement inconsistent with any of the foregoing; or
(xii) except as contemplated by Section 2(a)(iv), request, directly or indirectly, any amendment or waiver of the foregoing.
The foregoing provisions of this Section 2(a) shall not be deemed to prohibit the ValueAct Group or its directors, officers, partners, employees, members or agents (acting in such capacity) ("") from communicating privately with the Company's directors, officers or advisors so long as such communications are not intended to, and would not reasonably be expected to, require any public disclosure of such communications.
Representatives
(b) Each member of the ValueAct Group shall cause all shares of Common Stock beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by it, or by any ValueAct Affiliate, to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted, at the Company's Annual and Special Stockholder Meetings and at any adjournments or postponements thereof, and further agrees that at the 2013 annual meeting they shall vote in favor of all directors nominated by the Board for election at such meeting (including the ValueAct Designee as applicable) and in accordance with the Board's recommendation with respect to any proposals that may be the subject of stockholder action at such meeting; , , that with respect to a proposal related to an Extraordinary Transaction, the ValueAct Group and the ValueAct Affiliates may vote their shares of Common Stock beneficially owned, directly or directly, in the discretion of the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Affiliate, as applicable.
provided
however
(c) Nothing in this Section 2 shall limit any actions that may be taken by the ValueAct Designee acting solely as a director of the Company consistent with his fiduciary duties as a director of the Company (it being understood and agreed that the ValueAct Group and the ValueAct Affiliates shall not seek to do indirectly through the ValueAct Designee anything that would be prohibited if done by the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Affiliates).
 
For purposes of this Agreement the terms "" or "" shall mean any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability or unlimited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization or other entity of any kind or nature.
person
persons
3. . The Company represents and warrants as follows: (a) The Company has the power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, constitutes a valid and binding obligation and agreement of the Company and is enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
Representations of the Company
4. . The ValueAct Group, jointly and severally, represent and warrant as follows: (a) the ValueAct Group has the power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; (b) this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the ValueAct Group, constitutes a valid and binding obligation and agreement of the ValueAct Group and is enforceable against the ValueAct Group in accordance with its terms; (c) the ValueAct Group, together with the ValueAct Affiliates, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 28,907,623 shares of Common Stock and such shares of Common Stock constitute all of the Common Stock beneficially owned by the ValueAct Group and the ValueAct Affiliates); and (d) to the knowledge of the ValueAct Group, the ValueAct Designee (A) is "independent" under the NYSE listing standards and Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act and the Company's categorical independence criteria and (B) is not an "interested person", as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, of the ValueAct Group or the ValueAct Affiliates.
Representations of the ValueAct Group
5. .
Termination
(a) This Agreement is effective as of the date hereof and shall remain in full force and effect for the period (the "") commencing on the date hereof and ending on the date that is the earliest of (i) the date that is 10 days following the date that the Company materially breaches its obligations under the first section of this agreement, that such breach has not been cured prior to the expiration of such 10-day period; (ii) the date that is three months from the date the ValueAct Designee ceases to be a member of the Board and is not replaced; (iii) the date of the 2014 annual meeting; or (iv) if the Company does not include the ValueAct Designee in its slate of nominees for election as directors of the Company at the Company's 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the date the ValueAct Designee ceases to be a member of the Board.
Covered Period
provided
(b) The provisions of , Section, this , through (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the Confidentiality Agreement) shall survive the termination of this Agreement. No termination pursuant to shall relieve any party hereto from liability for any breach of this agreement prior to such termination.
Section 1(d)
 1(e)
Section 5
Section 7
Section 15
Section 5(a)
 
6. .
Public Announcement and SEC Filing
(a) The Company shall file promptly a Form 8-K reporting entry into this Agreement and appending or incorporating by reference this Agreement as an exhibit thereto.
(b) The ValueAct Group shall promptly file an amendment to its Schedule 13D with respect to the Company filed with the SEC on June 16, 2011, and as amended on July 20, 2011 and March 15, 2012 (the "") reporting the entry into this Agreement and amending applicable items to conform to its obligations hereunder.
ValueAct Schedule 13D
7. . The Company hereby agrees that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the ValueAct Group may be provided confidential information in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement in the form attached hereto as after such Confidentiality Agreement has been mutually executed and delivered.
Confidentiality Agreement
Exhibit A
8. . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that such damage would not be adequately compensable in monetary damages. Accordingly, the parties hereto shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement, to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement exclusively in the Court of Chancery or other federal or state courts of the State of Delaware and to require the resignation of the ValueAct Designee from the Board commencing on the date that is 10 days following the date that the ValueAct Designee and/or the ValueAct Group materially breaches its obligations under this agreement, provided that such breach has not been cured prior to the expiration of such 10-day period, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity, and each party agrees it will not take any action, directly or indirectly, in opposition to another party seeking relief. Each of the parties hereto agrees to waive any bonding requirement under any applicable law, in the case any other party seeks to enforce the terms by way of equitable relief. Furthermore, each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery or other federal or state courts of the State of Delaware in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (b) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (c) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than the Court of Chancery or other federal or state courts of the State of Delaware, and each of the parties irrevocably waives the right to trial by jury, and (d) each of the parties irrevocably consents to service of process by a reputable overnight mail delivery service, signature requested, to the address of such parties' principal place of business or as otherwise provided by applicable law. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION VALIDITY, INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT, BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS EXECUTED AND TO BE PERFORMED WHOLLY WITHIN SUCH STATE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CHOICE OF LAW PRINCIPLES OF SUCH STATE.
Miscellaneous
 
9. . All attorneys' fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and all matters related hereto will be paid by the party incurring such fees, costs or expenses.
Expenses
10. . This Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior and contemporaneous agreements, memoranda, arrangements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be amended only by an agreement in writing executed by the parties hereto, and no waiver of compliance with any provision or condition of this Agreement and no consent provided for in this Agreement shall be effective unless evidenced by a written instrument executed by the party against whom such waiver or consent is to be effective. No failure or delay by a party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
11. . All notices, consents, requests, instructions, approvals and other communications provided for herein and all legal process in regard hereto shall be in writing and shall be deemed validly given, made or served, if (a) delivered in person or sent by overnight courier, when actually received during normal business hours at the address specified in this subsection, or (b) if given by telecopy and email, when such telecopy and email is transmitted to the telecopy number set forth below and sent to the email address set forth below and the appropriate confirmation is received:
Notices
 
12. . If at any time subsequent to the date hereof, any provision of this Agreement shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, such provision shall be of no force and effect, but the illegality or unenforceability of such provision shall have no effect upon the legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
Severability
13. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts (including by facsimile transmission), each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute a single binding agreement on the parties, notwithstanding that not all parties are signatories to the same counterpart.
Counterparts
 
14. . This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not binding upon or enforceable by any other persons. No party to this Agreement may assign its rights or delegate its obligations under this Agreement, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and any assignment in contravention hereof shall be null and void. Nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended to or shall confer any rights, benefits or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement on any persons other than the parties hereto, nor is anything in this Agreement intended to relieve or discharge the obligation or liability of any third persons to any party.
No Third Party Beneficiaries; Assignment
15. . When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section, such reference shall be to a Section of this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" and "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The words "hereof, "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning as the word "shall." The words "dates hereof" will refer to the date of this Agreement. The word "or" is not exclusive. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms. Any agreement, instrument, law, rule or statute defined or referred to herein means, unless otherwise indicated, such agreement, instrument, law, rule or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it has been represented by counsel of its choice throughout all negotiations that have preceded the execution of this Agreement, and that it has executed the same with the advice of said independent counsel. Each party cooperated and participated in the drafting and preparation of this Agreement and the documents referred to herein, and any and all drafts relating thereto exchanged among the parties shall be deemed the work product of all of the parties and may not be construed against any party by reason of its drafting or preparation. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any ambiguities in this Agreement against any party that drafted or prepared it is of no application and is hereby expressly waived by each of the parties hereto, and any controversy over interpretations of this Agreement shall be decided without regards to events of drafting or preparation.
Interpretation and Construction
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Agreement, or caused the same to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Motorola Solutions Elects Anne R. Pramaggiore
and Bradley E. Singer to Board of Directors
.  Oct. 26, 2012  Motorola Solutions, Inc. (NYSE: MSI) today announced that Anne R. Pramaggiore, president and CEO of Commonwealth Edison, and Bradley E. Singer, a partner with ValueAct Capital and a former CFO at Discovery Communications and American Tower have been elected to its board of directors effective today.
SCHAUMBURG, Ill
"I am very pleased Anne and Brad have joined our board of directors," said Greg Brown, chairman and CEO of Motorola Solutions. "Anne's CEO experience and Brad's financial expertise clearly bring value to our board. We look forward to their insights and contributions."
Pramaggiore was named president and chief executive officer of Commonwealth Edison earlier this year and served as the company's chief operating officer from 2009 to 2012. She has been with the Chicago-based company since 1998 in various executive roles including overseeing customer operations and regulatory and external affairs. Prior to that, she was an attorney with McDermott, Will & Emery in Chicago for eight years. Pramaggiore holds a bachelor of arts degree from Miami University (Ohio) and a law degree from DePaul University.
Singer joined ValueAct this year as a partner in its San Francisco office and previously was senior executive vice president and CFO for Discovery Communications from 2008-2012. Prior to that, he was CFO and in key executive positions for eight years with American Tower Corp. in Boston and was an investment banker in New York with Goldman Sachs from 1997-2000. Singer holds a bachelor of science degree from the University of Virginia and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University.
About Motorola Solutions
Motorola Solutions is a leading provider of mission-critical communication solutions and services for enterprise and government customers. Through leading-edge innovation and communications technology, it is a global leader that enables its customers to be their best in the moments that matter. Motorola Solutions trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "MSI." To learn more, visit . For ongoing news, please visit our  or subscribe to our .
www.motorolasolutions.com
media center
news feed
Media Contact:
Nick Sweers
Motorola Solutions
+1 847-576-2462
nicholas.sweers@motorolasolutions.com
MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.


